ACF Fall 2011
Packet by Claremont A (Alex Kohn, Camille Cole, Corwyn Evans-Klock, Kevin Leydon, Rina Sadun)
Edited by Sarah Angelo, Bryan Berend, Matt Bollinger, Matt Hart, Gaurav Kandlikar, and Matt Menard

1.In one of this author’s works, an asteroid that enters the solar system turns out to be a cylindrical spaceship that is met by the Endeavour. In another of his novels, the alien Overlords invade, ushering in a golden age; later it is discovered that the Overlords are actually preparing humanity for integration with the Overmind. He wrote the short story “The Sentinel,” which formed the basis of a novel in which Dr. Bowman goes to Iapetus on Discovery One to investigate a monolith. For 10 points, name this science fiction author of Rendezvous with Rama, Childhood’s End, and a novel that Stanley Kubrick turned into a movie featuring the HAL 9000, 2001: A Space Odyssey.
ANSWER: Arthur Charles Clarke

2.The Bogomerom archipelago is located in this body of water, as well some notable floating islands. The Chari and its tributary the Logone form a major delta with this body. Seasonal water level fluctuations create problems for fishermen who also have to deal with the thousands of square kilometers of wetlands that surround it. The UN Food and Agricultural Organization labeled this lake an ecological catastrophe because of its unsustainable depletion by growing population in the four countries that share its shores. For 10 points, what is this shallow African lake located on the southern edge of the Sahara desert that lends its name to the country directly to its east?
ANSWER: Lake Chad

3.This character dances around in a white dress at a ceremony during which the ghosts of the dead are supposed to be released from a cavern, leading her stepfather to banish her. This character serves as the model for a girl who finds her father Ezra Mannon dying and later drives her brother Orin to suicide. Besides her appearance in The Flies, this character is referenced in the title of a trilogy of plays by Eugene O’Neill. In several ancient Greek plays, this character helps avenge the death of her father Agamemnon. For 10 points, name this sister of Orestes and Iphigenia who titles plays by Sophocles and Euripides.
ANSWER: Electra

4.During a constitutional crisis in this country, John Kerr dismissed Prime Minister Gough Whitlam when the opposition, in control of the Senate, deferred supply. In this country, forces under Peter Lalor set up the Southern Cross Flag during a rebellion of mine workers called the Eureka Stockade. Governor William Bligh was deposed in the Rum Rebellion in this country. This country’s territory was first discovered on an expedition led by Captain James Cook.  For 10 points, name this country that was originally used by the British as a colony where convicts were sent.
ANSWER: Commonwealth of Australia

5.Some of this religion’s practitioners buried flowers and some cremated them after the death of this religion’s founder, who had earlier been accosted for sleeping with his feet towards the Ka'ba. That founder also uttered the first three shabad of the nighttime hymn sohila. The khalsa is this religion's community, and each member is required to carry a Kirpan and is forbidden from cutting hair, a practice known as kesh. The tenth of this religion’s leaders was succeeded upon his death by a work that had been compiled by Arjan Dev. For 10 points, identify this Indian religion founded by Guru Nanak whose adherents practice the 5 K’s and whose holy book is the Adi Granth.
ANSWER: Sikhism

6.One poet of this last name included an epigraph from both Dante and Petrarch with each of the fourteen sonnets in the sequence Monna Innominata. A poet with this last name described a girl on whose arm “the lilies lay as if asleep” while she prays to be reunited with her lover in “The Blessed Damozel.” Another poet of this last name described Laura, who falls ill after heeding the repeated “come buy, come buy” and indulging in forbidden fruit, before she is saved by her sister Lizzie in the poem “Goblin Market.” For 10 points, give this last name shared by Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood member Dante Gabriel and his sister Christina.
ANSWER: Rossetti [or Dante Gabriel Rossetti; or Christina Rossetti]

7.A number of “folk high schools” were established in this country according to the ideas of N.F.S. Grundtvig. This country’s monarch lost many of his powers after attempting to dismiss Carl Zahle during the Easter Crisis, in which he tried to demand central Schleswig-Holstein from Germany. During its occupation by the Nazis, this country’s resistance movement saved nearly all of its Jews, and its king apocryphally wore a yellow star in solidarity. This country was ruled by a series of monarchs named Christian. For 10 points, name this Scandinavian nation bordering Germany on its south.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Denmark [or Kongeriget Danmark]

8.In one poem, this figure pries genealogical information from a wolf-riding volva named Hyndla. In another, this inhabitant of Sessrumnir was offered alongside the Sun and the Moon as a reward. That reward is never claimed by the owner of Svaldifari since he is discovered to be a Jotun before he finishes building the wall around Asgard. In one story, this goddess helped trick Thrym and reobtained the hammer Mjolnir by lending her necklace Brisingamen. She lent her falcon cloak to Loki and rides a chariot pulled by cats during Baldr’s funeral. For 10 points, name this daughter of Njord, a goddess who lives with the Aesir alongside her similarly named brother.
ANSWER: Freya [or Freyja]

9.This author opens one work with the pun “Within this sober Frame expect work of no foreign Architect” as he describes the title manor of “Upon Appleton House.” This man wrote “How fit he is to sway who can so well obey!” in “An Horatian Ode upon Cromwell’s Return from Ireland.” The speaker of another poem by this man states “the grave’s a fine and private place but none I think do there embrace” and warns of “time’s winged chariot hurrying near.” That speaker created by this man says his “vegetable love should grow vaster than empires” “had we but world enough and time.” For 10 points, name this British poet of “To His Coy Mistress.”
ANSWER: Andrew Marvell

10.One leader of this movement developed the “anxious seat” among his controversial New Measures, which were debated at the New Lebanon Conference. This movement produced a 20,000 person meeting at Cane Ridge, Kentucky, the largest of the many “camp meetings” during it. Its leaders included Lyman Beecher and Charles Grandison Finney, who called one of its main bases of support the “burnt-over district.” This movement gave rise to the Millerites, who formed the Seventh-Day Adventists. For 10 points, name this period of religious revival lasting from the early to mid-nineteenth century.
ANSWER: Second Great Awakening [prompt on Great Awakening; do not accept or prompt on “First Great Awakening”]

11.A theme parodying poor musicians is heard before the long coda in this piece’s last movement, which ends with two fortissimo chords. The timpani and piccolo only play in the fourth movement, in which the violins use staccato to imitate raindrops. This work premiered in Vienna in 1808 along with a work that opens with a four-note “fate” motif. Different instruments represent different birds in its second movement, and its third movement depicts the “Merry gathering of country folk.” Also depicting a “Scene by the Brook,” it is the only symphony by its composer in five movements. For 10 points, name this work by Ludwig van Beethoven often called the Pastoral Symphony.
ANSWER: Ludwig van Beethoven’s Symphony No. 6 in F Major [or Beethoven’s Sixth Symphony; or Symphony No. 6 after “Beethoven” is read; or Pastoral Symphony before it is read]

12.An experiment verifying one form of this phenomenon involved measuring the frequencies of gamma rays being produced by a spinning centrifuge. Another experiment testing this phenomenon involved looking for longer wavelengths on a spectrograph because of a relativistic term. Those experiments, verifying the transverse and relativistic forms of this effect, were performed by Kundig and by Ives and Stillwell. Astronomical objects may appear red or blue because of this effect. For 10 points, name this effect in which the motion of a wave-emitting source relative to an observer causes an apparent change in the wave’s frequency.
ANSWER: Doppler effect [or Doppler shift; prompt on red shift or blue shift after “may appear”]

13.In one work by this author, the producer Sturdyvant refuses to let Levee record his own songs, and Levee stabs a piano player. In another work by this author, Avery is unable to exorcise a ghost who is finally driven away by the use of an object that has the Charles family’s history carved into it. This author of Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom also wrote a play in which a man who is to be the first black garbage truck driver prevents his son Cory from being recruited to play college football and Rose learns that the title objects will not keep Troy faithful. For 10 points, name this playwright whose Pittsburgh Cycle includes The Piano Lesson and Fences.
ANSWER: August Wilson

14.This man’s first successful opera has the title knight kill Orbazzano in order to win back Amenaide. In addition to Tancredi, he also wrote an opera in which Ninetta is almost hanged because she is accused of taking a silver spoon, which was stolen by a bird. The aria “Sombre forêt” is sung by Mathilde in an opera where another character sings “Sois immobile” before shooting an apple off his son’s head. An opera by him based on a work by Beaumarchais sees the title character sing “Largo al factotum” and assist Count Almaviva in wedding Rosina. For 10 points, name this Italian opera composer of William Tell and The Barber of Seville.
ANSWER: Gioachino Antonio Rossini

15.This value of the different transition states determines the composition of the product of a given reaction according to the Curtin-Hammett principle. For voltaic cells, this quantity equals the negative product of the moles of electrons transferred, Faraday’s constant, and the electric potential. The negative product of the universal gas constant, temperature, and natural log of the equilibrium constant gives this quantity. Fugacity is defined as the pressure dependence of this quantity. This quantity is equal to the enthalpy minus the product of temperature and entropy. For 10 points, name this thermodynamic quantity used to predict the spontaneity of reactions, and is symbolized G.
ANSWER: Gibbs free energy [prompt on Gibbs; prompt on free energy]

16.One of this man's works includes Joabin the Jew, and describes a group of travelers who find a scroll in Hebrew, Greek, Latin, and Spanish telling them not to land on an island which was converted to Christianity when its inhabitants observed a beam of light at sea. That work describes Bensalem and its Saloman's House. In addition to The New Atlantis, this man wrote a work that warns against four kinds of fallacies. The Tribe, Den, Marketplace, and Theatre are sources of the four kinds of idols in one of this thinker's works, which pays homage to Aristotle with its title. For 10 points, name this author of Novum Organum and advocate of the scientific method.
ANSWER: Francis Bacon

17.A woman in the foreground of this painting hands a plate to a man in blue and reaches into a basket on the floor, into which a cat peers. A man in red kneels on the closer side of a long table in this work, in which many of the objects are situated diagonally. Angels come out of a lamp on the left and head towards the central figure, who has a halo around his head. The same scene of this painting was painted by another artist on the walls of the Santa Maria della Grazie and shows an effeminate looking John the Apostle sitting next to the central figure. For 10 points, name this painting by Tintoretto which shares its name with a Leonardo da Vinci work depicting Jesus’ final meal.
ANSWER: The Last Supper [or The Last Supper by Tintoretto]

18.One organelle in these organisms is located near the plasma membrane and regulates growth; that organelle is called the Spitzenkörper. Some of these organisms synthesize aflatoxins, which can cause severe liver damage, and one of these organisms infects rye plants and causes ergots. These organisms have cell walls that lack glucose and are instead made up of chitin. The symbiotic relationships between these organisms and the roots of vascular plants are referred to as mychorrhizae, and some members of this kingdom have mycelia, which are composed of hyphae. For 10 points, name this kingdom of spore-producing organisms that contains penicillin, yeast, and most mushrooms.
ANSWER: Fungi [or fungus; prompt on mushrooms; prompt on yeast]

19.These forces wore woolen hats with spoons attached to the front, and each legion gathered around a copper pot, which they tipped over in times of rebellion. They were divided into forces called Ortas, which were collectively led by an Aga. They were gathered by the devshirme system for centuries, but were dissolved in the Auspicious Incident. Initially, most of their ranks were composed of Christian slaves taken from the Balkans. For 10 points, name this elite guard of the Ottoman Sultan.
ANSWER: Jannisaries [or Jannisary; or Yeniceri]

20.Calculation of the number of minimum spanning trees of a graph can be done by applying this function to the reduced Laplacian according to Kirchhoff’s Theorem. The characteristic polynomial can be found by performing this operation on a difference, one of whose terms has an eigenvalue. Solutions to a system of linear equations can be expressed as a quotient involving this function according to Cramer's rule. This function is the unique, multilinear alternating form on square matrices. In a triangular matrix, the product of all diagonal entries yields this value. For 10 points, name this matrix operation computed using cofactor expansion, and for a 2 by 2 matrix is A D minus B C.
ANSWER: determinants

21.One of the first studies on this phenomenon involved beans in a glass bottle and was performed by Arthur Jenness. Herbert Kelman identified the compliance, identification, and internalization types of this phenomenon. Another experiment testing this phenomenon had subjects watch a stationary point of light in a dark room and report on its movement. That experiment used the autokinetic effect and was performed by Muzafer Sherif. Another study of this phenomenon had subjects compare the lengths of lines on cards. For 10 points, name this phenomenon that occurs when people change their behavior or opinions in response to outside pressure that was observed by Solomon Asch.
ANSWER: conformity

Bonuses:

1.This man's namesake problem concerns the validity of a particular definition of knowledge. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this philosopher whose most famous paper asks “Is Justified True Belief Knowledge?”
ANSWER: Edmund Gettier
[10] The Gettier problem is a central problem of this field of philosophy, which is concerned with the limitations and nature of knowledge.
ANSWER: epistemology
[10] An argument against this thought experiment from epistemology was put forth by Hilary Putnam. In it, a mad scientist has removed a certain body part from the body, and is stimulating it with electrical currents to simulate reality.
ANSWER: brain in a vat

2.Name some things about the mechanics of rotation around a fixed axis, for 10 points each.
[10] This measure of an object’s resistance to rotational change is the analogue of mass in rotational motion. Its value for a hollow sphere is two-thirds of the product of mass and radius squared.
ANSWER: mass moment of inertia
[10] Moment of inertia can be multiplied by angular acceleration to yield this quantity in an analogue of Newton's Second Law. This quantity is the cross-product of force and the displacement vector from the axis.
ANSWER: torque
[10] In this equation, the moment of inertia about a line through an object’s center of mass is added to the product of the object’s mass and the square of the distance from the namesake line in order to find the moment of inertia about that line.
ANSWER: parallel axis theorem [orr Huygens-Steiner theorem]

3.This work shares its title with a dancehall its creator visited with fellow composer Carlos Chávez. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this orchestral piece in which a trumpet-solo begins a section based on the song “El Mosco.” Other songs that this work is based on include “El Paolo Verde” and “La Jesusita.”
ANSWER: El Salón México
[10] This American composer of El Salón México did not score any strings in his Fanfare for the Common Man. He also set the Shaker tune “Simple Gifts” to music in his ballet Appalachian Spring.
ANSWER: Aaron Copland
[10] This other piece by Copland is meant to portray a famous American through music. This piece reaches its climax when a speaker reads lines from the Gettysburg Address.
ANSWER: A Lincoln Portrait

4.She was described as half-nymph, half-snake, and is usually considered the daughter of Ceto and Phorcys or of Tartarus and Gaia. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this wife of Typhon and Greek “mother of all monsters,” including Cerberus and the Chimera.
ANSWER: Echidna
[10] Another daughter of Echidna was this riddle-telling creature with the face of a woman, body of a lion, wings of an eagle, and tail of a serpent.
ANSWER: Sphinx
[10] This other monstrous woman, often depicted wearing a snakeskin, devours children since Hera killed hers by Zeus.
ANSWER: Lamia

5.This element has an oxidation of +6 in two ions in which it is bonded to four and seven oxygen atoms, and this metal is found in the Jones reagent. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this transition metal that is found in stainless steel and has chemical symbol Cr.
ANSWER: chromium [prompt on chrome]
[10] Chromium is found in the mineral barbertonite along with this other alkaline earth metal. This element is found in talc along with silica, and calcium and this element are bonded to the carbonate ion in dolomite.
ANSWER: magnesium [or Mg]
[10] Epsom salt, which is often used as a drying agent, is made up of a magnesium atom bonded to this anion with a charge of 2- [“two minus”].
ANSWER: sulfate ion [or SO4 2-]

6.This man was forced to resign from the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts due to his insistence that both men and women should use nude male models for their paintings. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this American painter whose nude paintings include Arcadia and The Swimming Hole. He also depicted his friend Max Schmidt rowing down the Schuylkill River in an 1871 painting. 
ANSWER: Thomas Cowperthwait Eakins
[10] Eakins may be best known for this 1875 painting that depicts the titular surgeon holding a scalpel while standing in the middle of an auditorium. On the right, other surgeons crowd around a bloody patient.
ANSWER: The Gross Clinic
[10] Another American Realist painter was Robert Henri, who was the leader of this school of painting. With a name coined by Holger Cahill and Alfred Barr, this group often focused on painting the poor of New York.
ANSWER: Ashcan School [or The Eight]

7.Answer these questions about an early British monarch, for 10 points each.
[10] This first Plantagenet king of England ended the Anarchy, but his reign was marred by the murder of Thomas Becket by four of his knights. His sons included Richard the Lionhearted and John Lackland.
ANSWER: Henry II of England [or Henry FitzEmpress; or Henry Curtmantle; prompt on Henry]
[10] Henry II passed these documents to reassert secular power over the clergy. They controversially allowed for priests who committed serious crimes to be punished in secular courts.
ANSWER: Constitutions of Clarendon
[10] This estranged wife of Henry II encouraged her sons in their revolt against Henry. According to Andreas Capellanus, she established a “Court of Love” in Poitiers.
ANSWER: Eleanor of Aquitaine [or Eleanor of Guyenne; prompt on Eleanor]

8.This type of policy does not refer to taxation or government spending. For 10 points each:
[10] The Federal Reserve is responsible for carrying out this type of policy, which involves either the purchase or sale of bonds or the lowering of the reserve requirement.
ANSWER: monetary policy
[10] Another method of carrying out this policy by the Fed involves this, the interest rate charged for short-term loans to commercial banks, which is currently set at 0.75 percent.
ANSWER: discount rate
[10] This economist discusses the role of monetary policy in his book A Monetary Policy in the United States, where he argues that an excessively tight monetary policy by the Fed following the boom of the 1920s led to the Great Depression in the 1930s.
ANSWER: Milton Friedman

9.For 10 points each, answer the following about choreographer Michel Fokine.
[10] Fokine choreographed the ballet Daphnis et Chloé for this ballet company, whose original members came from the Imperial Ballet of St. Petersburg. It was directed by Sergei Diaghilev.
ANSWER: Ballet Russes [or Russian Ballets]
[10] Another work choreographed by Fokine was Petrushka, which starred this ballerina who also danced the leading parts in Giselle and The Sleeping Beauty. He retired at age 29 and was later diagnosed with schizophrenia.
ANSWER: Vaslav Nijinsky
[10] In 1905, Fokine choreographed this solo piece for the ballerina Anna Pavlova. Based on a section of Carnival of the Animals, this work shows the last moments of the title creature.
ANSWER: The Dying Swan

10.Answer these questions about late nineteenth century political scandals, for 10 points each.
[10] In this scandal, Representative Oakes Ames bribed fellow congressmen with stock from the namesake corporation, which was involved in building the Transcontinental Railroad.
ANSWER: Crédit Mobilier of America Scandal
[10] The Credit Mobilier scandal, as well as numerous other scandals, occurred during the term of this notoriously credulous president. He accepted Lee’s surrender at Appomattox as a general during the Civil War.
ANSWER: Ulysses S. Grant [or Hiram Ulysses Grant]
[10] James Garfield faced this scandal while in office, in which various people, including public officials, gave bribes to obtain the namesake prized postal routes.
ANSWER: Star Route Scandal

11.A poem by this man describes the road as “a ribbon of moonlight” and the moon as “a ghostly galleon.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author who created Bess, the landlord’s daughter, who dies warning her lover of waiting soldiers alerted by Tim the Ostler in his poem “The Highwayman.”
ANSWER: Alfred Noyes
[10] The final husband of the title character of this novel by Daniel Defoe is also a highwayman. After this novel’s title character supports herself for some time as a thief in London, she settles with him in Virginia.
ANSWER: Moll Flanders [or the longer title]
[10] Another highwayman appears in and titles this Sir Walter Scott novel, in which Frank Osbaldistone finally becomes the master of an estate and marries Diana Vernon after the deaths of his awful cousins.
ANSWER: Rob Roy

12.Name some things related to the five pillars of Islam, for 10 points each:
[10]The five pillars are enumerated in one collection of these sayings or actions of Muhammad. Each consists of isnad and matn, which describe the chain of narrators who related the saying, as well as the content of the saying.
ANSWER: hadiths
[10] This pillar is the statement that there is no God but God and Muhammad is his prophet. An honest recitation of this phrase is all that is necessary to become a Muslim.
ANSWER: shahada
[10] This pillar is the practice of giving 2.5% of one’s income to the poor or needy. Some Saudi charities have been criticized for using these donations to fund Palestinian relief organizations, including Hamas.
ANSWER: zakat

13.This tax protest led by a religious society lasted eight years and caused up to sixteen million deaths. The region was eventually pacified by resettling the population in fortified villages. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Sichuan-based rebellion that promised the return of the Maitreya Buddha.
ANSWER: White Lotus Rebellion
[10] The White Lotus Society advocated for the return of this last Han Chinese dynasty which preceded the Qing.
ANSWER: Ming Dynasty
[10] In this later rebellion, Hong Xiuqan, who claimed to be the brother of Jesus, led his followers against the Manchu dynasty. Tens of millions died.
ANSWER: Taiping Rebellion

14.One poem by this author states that you “have lain too long face down in ignorance.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author of that work, which begins “A Rock, A River, A Tree hosts to species long since departed.” This author read that poem, “On the Pulse of Morning,” at Bill Clinton’s inauguration.
ANSWER: Maya Angelou [or Marguerite Johnson]
[10] This autobiography by Maya Angelou describes her childhood rape by a man who was living with her mother, as well as her life growing up with her brother Bailey at their grandmother’s store.
ANSWER: I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings
[10] I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings takes it title from this man’s poem “Sympathy.” This man’s collections include Lyrics of Lowly Life, and he wrote “with torn and bleeding hearts we smile” in “We Wear the Mask.”
ANSWER: Paul Laurence Dunbar

15.This group of hormones regulates gravitropism and phototropism, and these hormones usually travel downward through shoots in a process called polar transport. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this class of plant hormones that includes indoleacetic acid, and which, like gibberellins, regulates growth.
ANSWER: auxins
[10] Auxins stimulate the formation of these structures, which develop from ovaries of flowers and store seeds. Edible examples of these structures include oranges and strawberries.
ANSWER: fruits
[10] The thaliana species of this plant genus serves as a model organism for biological investigations. Members of this genus have five chromosomes, and these organisms are types of mustard.
ANSWER: Arabidopsis [prompt on Arabidopsis thaliana]

16.Name these board games, for 10 points each.
[10] Created by Klaus Teuber in Germany, this game has players collect resources like brick and sheep to build roads and cities. Its expansions include Cities and Knights, Seafarers, and Traders and Barbarians.
ANSWER: The Settlers of Catan [or Die Siedler von Catan]
[10] Created in 1954, this zero-luck strategy game is set in World War I Europe. Each player must use the titular skill to form alliances and maneuver armies and fleets into supply centers.
ANSWER: Diplomacy
[10] Set in Mesopotamia, players of this game use two action points per turn to develop their kingdoms, create internal or external conflicts, and build monuments that spawn victory points.
ANSWER: Tigris and Euphrates [or Euphrat und Tigris]

17.The protagonist of this novel gives up a trip to Africa to pay for his son’s operation. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this work in which Bird is confronted with his son’s mental illness and turns to alcohol and his former girlfriend, Himiko, before realizing his selfishness and helping to care for the child.
ANSWER: A Personal Matter [or Kojinteki na Taiken]
[10] This Japanese author of A Personal Matter was heavily influenced by his brain-damaged son Hikari. His other works include Nip the Buds, Shoot the Kids.
ANSWER: Kenzaburo Oe
[10] This novel is reportedly one of Oe’s favorites. In this work, the title character witnesses the Shepherdson-Grangerford feud and travels down the Mississippi River with a runaway slave named Jim.
ANSWER: The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn

18.This scientist wrote an essay tracking the development of Mickey Mouse as he was depicted with a larger head and larger eyes. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this American biologist who criticized the use of numbers to represent the human mind in The Mismeasure of Man. He is better known for proposing the idea of punctuated equilibrium along with Niles Eldredge.
ANSWER: Stephen Jay Gould
[10] The title essay of this collection by Stephen Jay Gould explains that the titular structure, which is used to grab and hold bamboo shoots, is actually a result of an enlarged radial sesamoid.
ANSWER: The Panda’s Thumb [accept word forms like “the thumbs of pandas”]
[10] One essay in “The Panda’s Thumb” focuses on this hoax, 	in which orangutan and human skulls were mixed together and “discovered” at a site in Sussex.
ANSWER: Piltdown Man Hoax

19.His attempt to ally with the Allobroges, a tribe of Gauls, failed when they revealed the plan to the Senate. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Roman politician whose conspiracy attempted to overthrow the Republic. He was defeated at Pistoria after his allies were ambushed at Milvian Bridge.
ANSWER: Catiline [or Lucius Sergius Catilina]
[10] This Roman consul warned the Senate of Catiline’s plot and delivered a series of invective speeches against him. For the rest of his life, he repeatedly brought up the fact that he had saved the Republic.
ANSWER: Marcus Tullius Cicero [or Marcus Tullius Cicero]
[10] This man cried for Cicero after he stabbed Julius Caesar. Allegedly, Caesar was shocked at this man’s betrayal and asked, “Et tu?”
ANSWER: Marcus Junius Brutus

20.In this work, the author meets Aristotle, Socrates, and Homer in Limbo. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this first part of The Divine Comedy, in which Dante travels through nine circles of Hell and sees figures like Helen of Troy and Mohammad.
ANSWER: The Inferno
[10] This Roman literary hero of Dante guides him through Hell. This man wrote the Georgics, as well as an epic poem in which the Trojans settle in Latium.
ANSWER: Publius Virgilius Maro
[10] This city lies between the fourth and fifth circles of Hell. It is guarded by fallen angels and separates the sins of passion from the intellectual sins.
ANSWER: Dis

21.Name these passes, for 10 points each.
[10] Famously crossed by Alexander the Great, Darius I, and Genghis Khan, this pass links Pakistan and Afghanistan and was an integral part of the Silk Road.
ANSWER: Khyber Pass
[10] Crossing its namesake region of the Appalachian Mountains, this pass is located at the junction of Kentucky, Tennessee, and Virginia, and was an integral part of the Wilderness Road.
ANSWER: Cumberland Gap
[10] Straddling the continental divide between the Rhine and Po watersheds, this Swiss pass connects the cantons of Uri and Ticino and was dedicated to its namesake saint in 1236.
ANSWER: Saint Gotthard Pass
