ACF Fall 2011

Packet by Georgia Tech A (Siddharth Dhingra, Gregory Peacock, Bradley Silverman, Austin Wilder)

Edited by Sarah Angelo, Bryan Berend, Matt Bollinger, Matt Hart, Gaurav Kandlikar, and Matt Menard



1.This country sits on the eastern side of the Terai grasslands. Rivers in this country include the Kamala River, the river of seven tributaries, the Koshi, and the Karnali, the longest in this country. The capital of this country forms a tri-cities region with Lalitpur and Bhaktapur in its namesake valley. The Siliguri Corridor separates this country’s southeast corner from Bangladesh, and this country is bordered on three sides by India. Its northern border with China sits along the Himalayas. For 10 points, name this southeast Asian nation with capital at Kathmandu and home to Sagarmatha, or Mount Everest.

ANSWER: Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal [or Sanghiya Loktantrik Ganatantra Nepal]



2.One of these discusses a woman who at first refuses to open her mouth and who later falls ill after being given an injection of propyl. Another of these involved six or seven white wolves sitting on a big walnut tree outside of a window. Those episodes are “Irma’s Injection” and “Wolf Man,” respectively. A book on these discusses the mechanisms of secondary elaboration and condensation, along with symbols and the title phenomena. For 10 points, identify this phenomena that, according to the activation-synthesis hypothesis, occurs during REM, and which were written about in Sigmund Freud’s Interpretation of these.

ANSWER: dreams



3.One film from this country sees Captain von Rauffenstein reluctantly shoot a prisoner-of-war when he tries to escape from Wintersborn. Another filmmaker from here created a character who divorces Christine Darbon in Love on the Run. In another work, that character is sent to a work camp after stealing a typewriter and is named Antoine Doinel. Another film from here focuses on the events after the Humphrey Bogart-admiring Michel shoots a police officer. Such films as The 400 Blows and Breathless are part of this country’s “New Wave” movement. For 10 points, name this home country of Jean-Luc Goddard and Francois Truffaut.

ANSWER: France [or French Republic; or République francaise]



4.The narrator of this novel dreams of a faceless man standing by the title character’s bed and commanding him to rise. The title characters of this novel seek help from Dr. Lanyon, who then dies of shock after witnessing the appearance of a man who beat Danvers Carew (“carry”) to death. In this novel, the lawyer Gabriel Utterson finds a note from one of the title characters explaining his development of a potion that gradually came to control him. For 10 points, name this novel by Robert Louis Stevenson about a scientist who splits his personality.

ANSWER: The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde



5.This man was exiled after he threw a cup at Attalus for calling him a bastard at a banquet. He poured rocks into the sea to build a bridge over the Mediterranean and besiege the island city of Tyre. This man’s army defeated King Porus at the Battle of the Hydaspes during his conquest of Punjab. After his death, this man’s generals fought over his holdings in the Wars of the Diadochi. He won great victories at Issus and Gaugamela, where he defeated Darius III to take over the Persian Empire. For 10 points, name this son of Philip II, a ruler of Macedon known for his vast Asian conquests.

ANSWER: Alexander the Great [or Alexander III of Macedon; or Megas Alexandros; prompt on Alexander]



6.One form of this process explains the phenomenon in which particles are deflected away from the particle free layer when a heated rod is immersed into smokes; that effect is named after Ludwig and Soret. The rate of this process is inversely proportional to the square root of the molar mass according to Graham’s law. One set of laws governing this process relates it to the difference in partial pressure and the area and thickness of the membrane across which it is occurring. Some transport proteins across the cell membrane facilitate this process. For 10 points, name this process by which particles move from areas of higher concentrations to those of lower concentrations.

ANSWER: thermodiffusion [or thermophoresis]



7.This man dreams of an epidemic that makes each person believe that he alone knows the truth. This man explains his theory of the right of extraordinary men to commit crimes to Porfiry, who is the cousin of this man’s best friend Razumikhin. This man’s sister Dunya breaks off an arranged marriage that had been intended to help him financially. This man confesses to the prostitute daughter of the drunken Marmeladov. Sonya ultimately joins this man in Siberia, where he has been sent for murdering Lizaveta and her pawnbroker sister. For 10 points, name this protagonist of Fyodor Dostoyevsky’s Crime and Punishment.

ANSWER: Rodion Romanovich Raskolnikov



8.One king of this people created a version of Christianity in which services end with members raising up their right hands. That version practiced by these people is called Ringatu. Another leader of this people received numerous gifts from King George IV, which he traded for weapons to use against his rivals in the Musket Wars. These people were given the rights of British subjects in a treaty they signed with William Hobson. These signatories of the Treaty of Waitangi are the natives of a country whose cities include Auckland. For 10 points, name this indigenous people of New Zealand.

ANSWER: Maori



9.The functional units of this organ contain a glycoprotein-rich substance known as colloid. This organ’s namesake isthmus connects the lower portions of its two lobes. A set of four organs that lie behind this larger organ release a hormone that allow osteoclasts to reabsorb bone mineral and thus allows calcium to enter the blood stream. One disease of this organ results in severely bulging eyes. Autoimmune disorders of this gland include Hashimoto’s and Graves diseases. Rates of metabolism are affected by the T3 and T4 hormones released by this gland. For 10 points, name this endocrine gland located in the neck that can swell into a goiter.

ANSWER: thyroid gland



10.This poet advises a woman to “put as little trust as possible in tomorrow.” This man also composed a work to be performed at games celebrating the end of the century. This author of the Carmen Saeculare also celebrated the defeat of an unnamed Cleopatra in a work that begins “nunc est bibendum.” In another work, this man asserts that plays should be written in five acts and that continuity errors can be made by any skill level of poets. This man also coined the phrase “carpe diem” as well as “dulce et decorum est pro patria mori.” For 10 points, name this author of Ars Poetica and several books of his namesake odes.

ANSWER: Horace [or Quintus Horatius Flaccus]



11.Fawn Hill testified to destroying documents about this event after it was revealed in the Lebanese magazine Ash-Shiraa. Manucher Ghorbarnifar was denounced as a “fabricator” for providing inaccurate intelligence as a middleman during this event. Both John Poindexter and Caspar Weinberger were convicted after the investigation by the Tower Commission over this scandal, which involved violating the Boland Amendment and began as an arms-for-hostages deal. Nicaraguan Sandanistas later sued the United States for funding their opponents in this event. For 10 points, in what Reagan-era scandal did the United States sell weapons to a Middle Eastern country?

ANSWER: Iran-Contra Affair



12.This thinker advocated drinking pine-tar in one work while in another the narrator is named "Dion." That work's dialog occurs between Lysicles, Euphranor, Crito and the title "Ten Minute Philosopher" as they combat the arguments of free-thinkers like Shaftesberry. This author of Siris and Alciphron posed 392 questions including "Who's fault is it if Ireland continues poor?", in his Querist. This man also criticized the notions of fluxions and infinitesimals, and  his "master argument" claims “to be is to be perceived.” For 10 points, name this Anglican Bishop and Irish philosopher of The Analyst, who criticized Locke in Three Dialogues Between Hylas and Philonus.

ANSWER: George Berkeley



13.A plowman working in a field can be seen on the right side of this painting, and its left side shows a bridge with four arches. A rabbit is barely visible running away from the center, and the top half of this work is characterized by a cloudy sky with visible impasto marks. This painting shows a boat in a river below the central object, which contains people exposed to the elements and expels smoke. Reflecting the conflict of nature and technology during the Industrial Revolution, this work depicts the Thames River under the Maidenhead Bridge, on which a train quickly approaches the viewer. For 10 points, name this Romantic watercolor by J.M.W. Turner.

ANSWER: Rain, Steam, and Speed - The Great Western Railway



14.Every finite Abelian group is isomorphic to a direct sum of quotients of this group, as every finite cyclic group is a quotient of this group, which is itself the only infinite cyclic group. In their namesake type of domain, cancellation holds because there are no zero divisors. The Eisenstein and Gaussian types of these numbers form triangular and square lattices in the complex plane. Equivalence classes of pairs of these numbers are used to define the rational numbers. These numbers are countable, but they are not a field because they do not support division. For 10 points, name this set of numbers symbolized Z that contains zero, the natural numbers, and their additive inverses.

ANSWER: integers



15.The ritual of bi’ur, or burning, traditionally precedes the distribution of this object, which is the subject of the first of the Four Questions. One specific example of this item is traditionally stolen by children and not returned until the end of the meal; that example is the afikomen. Hillel the Elder mixed it with maror and Paschal lamb, creating an item that makes up a part of the seder meal. Items not made of this foodstuff are chametz and must be thrown away before the start of the holiday. Because Israelites had to leave Egypt before their bread had time to rise, for 10 points, what unleavened bread is annually enjoyed by Jews on Passover?

ANSWER: matzos [or matzahs; or matzot; or matzoth]



16.In one story, this man interpreted falling off his horse as a bad omen, causing him to not join his son on an exploration out west. This man had a dispute with his neighbor after he lent him his seat posts, but his neighbor refused to return them. His subsequent killing of that neighbor brought about his exile for three years. During that exile, he established an estate at Brattahlith. This man’s son discovered Vinland, which is located on the east coast of North America. For 10 points, name this father of Leif Ericson and Viking explorer who created the first settlements in Greenland.

ANSWER: Erik the Red [or Erik Thorvaldsson]



17.One statement named for this man says that the derivative of enthalpy with respect to temperature equals the change in heat capacity of a reaction. A set of laws named for this scientist divides spectroscopic spectrums into continuous, emission-line, or absorption-line based on the material. A black body’s emissivity equals its absorptivity according to another statement named for him. One law named for this man says that the sum of currents entering a node must equal the sum of currents exiting that node. Another law named for him says that the sum of voltage changes in a closed circuit must equal zero. For 10 points, identify this physicist who has junction and loop rules.

ANSWER: Gustav Robert Kirchhoff



18.An archaic Greek poem in which Iolaus and his uncle battle Cycnus is named for one of these. Eleven copies were made of one of these items belonging to Mars called the Ancile. One of these items called Svalinn sits in front of the sun. Joseph of Arimathea’s blood is on one belonging to Galahad, and Lancelot’s can grant him limitless energy. One belonging to Aeneas prophetically depicts the victory at Actium. Achilles’ one is the subject of an ekphrasis in the Iliad. A huge lion-skin one is used by Ajax the Greater to protect Teucer, and Perseus uses a mirror-like one to slay Medusa. For 10 points, name this item, one of which featuring the head of Medusa is Athena’s Aegis.

ANSWER: shields [or specific types such as bucklers]



19.This composer used the ent’ractes from a piece of incidental music in his thirteenth string quartet. His sixth symphony is sometimes called the “Little C Minor.” He adapted the poetry of Wilhelm Müller for two song cycles, The Fair Maid of the Mill and Die Winterreise. Another work uses a rising sextuplet to depict a leaping animal. The second movement of his fourteenth string quartet contains variations of his earlier lied “Death and the Maiden.” This composer of the Trout Quintet is perhaps best known for a B minor work with only two completed movements. For 10 points, name this Austrian composer of an “Unfinished” eighth symphony.

ANSWER: Franz Peter Schubert



20.This author wrote “soul more white never through martyrdom of fire was led to its repose” in a poem about the death of his wife. A character described by this author of “Cross of Snow” ignores “the secret dread of the lonely belfry and the dead.” In that work by this author, he promises “you shall hear” about a figure who instructs his friend to light “one if by land, and two if by sea.” This author also wrote of a man who created the red-headed woodpecker before marrying Minnehaha in a work that opens “by the shores of Gitcheegoomee.” For 10 points, name this poet of “Paul Revere’s Ride” and “The Song of Hiawatha.”

ANSWER: Henry Wadsworth Longfellow



21.This pop singer was the first winner of the Gershwin prize, and in 2002, he recorded the track “Father and Daughter” as the theme song for The Wild Thornberrys Movie. One of his songs says, “If you’ll be my bodyguard... I can call you Betty,” and in another song he sings “Goodbye Rosie, queen of Corona.” Those tracks are “You Can Call Me Al” and “Me and Julio Down By The Schoolyard.” This singer of Graceland was the writer for a duo that produced such hits as “Cecilia,” “The Boxer,” and “Sounds of Silence.” For 10 points, name this singer of solo works such as “50 Ways to Leave Your Lover,” but who is best known for his partnership with Art Garfunkel.

ANSWER: Paul Frederic Simon



Bonuses:



1.Answer these questions about the presidency of Franklin Pierce, for 10 points each.

[10] Pierce’s Secretary of War was this Mississippian, who later served as President of the Confederacy.

ANSWER: Jefferson Davis

[10] Pierce’s ambassador to Mexico negotiated this namesake purchase, in which he obtained part of what now makes up southern New Mexico and Arizona.

ANSWER: Gadsden Purchase

[10] This man claimed that if Hawthorne wrote a favorable biography of Pierce, it would be the “greatest work of fiction he ever wrote.” He is better known as the father of the “common school” movement.

ANSWER: Horace Mann



2.The south wall of this building has many windows of varying shapes, sizes, and stained glass colors, and it was built on the site of another building that was destroyed in WWII. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this religious building primarily made of concrete that is located in Ronchamp and has a distinctive curved roof.

ANSWER: Notre Dame du Haut

[10] This French architect wrote the influential book Towards a New Architecture, the principles of which are exemplified in such buildings as the Notre Dame du Haut and the Villa Savoye.

ANSWER: Le Corbusier [or Charles-Édouard Jeanneret]

[10] Another pioneer of modern architecture is this man, who designed the New National Gallery in his native country, Germany. Buildings designed by him in the U.S. include the Farnsworth House and the Seagram Building.

ANSWER: Ludwig Mies van der Rohe [prompt on van der Rohe]



3.One character in this play disguises himself as a mountebank to catch a glimpse of Corvino’s wife. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this comedy in which the title character and his servant Mosca swindle three men named for birds out of their wealth until the noble Bonario’s intervention eventually leads to their arrest.

ANSWER: Volpone

[10] This poet and playwright of Volpone also wrote a play in which Subtle poses as the title Alchemist to con Mammon and others until his butler partner’s master returns.

ANSWER: Benjamin Jonson

[10] Ben Jonson wrote a number of these festive court plays that include music and dancing. Edgar Allan Poe recalls the origin of this type of play from the arrival of unexpected players in the appearance of his Red Death.

ANSWER: masques



4.The Durham Report recommended a parliamentary government for this country. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this country that signed NAFTA along with the United States and Mexico.

ANSWER: Canada 

[10] This Conservative was the first Prime Minister of Canada.

ANSWER: John Alexander Macdonald

[10] Macdonald’s first government fell after this scandal, in which he was revealed to have taken contributions from Hugh Allan’s railway company.

ANSWER: Pacific Scandal



5.[Note to moderator: Do not read the alternate answers to the first part]

This work’s first movement quotes the composer’s aria “Un bacio di mano,” which he wrote for Pasquale Anfossi’s opera Le gelosie fortunate, and it ends with a brilliant five-part fugato. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this symphony in four movements that is preceded in number by one of only two minor-key symphonies its composer wrote. That other work is sometimes called the “Great G minor” Symphony.

ANSWER: Jupiter Symphony [or Mozart’s Symphony No. 41 in C major; prompt on Mozart’s last symphony]

[10] With a name meaning “A little serenade” but more often translated as “A little night music,” this other work in four movements by the composer of the Jupiter Symphony begins with a notable Mannheim rocket theme.

ANSWER: Eine kleine Nachtmusik [or Serenade No. 13 in G major]

[10] The Jupiter Symphony was the last one created by this composer, who also composed Eine kleine Nachtmusik, the opera The Magic Flute¸ and who was one of the most prolific composers of the Classical era.

ANSWER: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart



6.The title character of this play saves Armgart and her children by shooting a tyrant. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this play in which the cruel Gessler forces the title huntsman to shoot an apple off his son Walter’s head.

ANSWER: William Tell [or Wilhelm Tell]

[10] This German playwright of William Tell also wrote the poem “Ode to Joy.”

ANSWER: Friedrich Schiller [or Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller]

[10] Schiller also wrote The Maid of Orleans, a play about this figure from the Hundred Years’ War who led the French with what she believed to be guidance from several saints.

ANSWER: Joan of Arc [or Saint Joan; or Jeanne d’Arc; prompt on Joan]



7.This country’s government was corrupted by the influence of the Medellin Cartel, which was under the control of Pablo Escobar. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this Latin American country with capital at Bogota.

ANSWER: Republic of Colombia [or Republica de Colombia]

[10] This Marxist terrorist organization in Colombia is notorious for engaging in kidnappings, hijackings, and bombings to attain its ends. Two of its leaders, Tirofijo and Mono Jojoy, have recently died.

ANSWER: FARC [or Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia; or Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia]

[10] Colombia’s troubled history also includes this long period of fighting between Liberals and Conservatives, which began with a riot called the bogotazo after the death of Jorge Eliecer Gaitan.

ANSWER: La Violencia



8.His father was responsible for the Hama massacre, which killed over 10,000 civilians. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this Syrian president who is currently cracking down on protests within his country.

ANSWER: Bashar al-Assad

[10] Bashar al-Assad and his father both belong to this Shia offshoot, from which they draw many of their followers, and which is responsible for many of the violent attacks on protesters.

ANSWER: Alawite

[10] The protests in Syria have recently reached this capital of Syria, which has prompted further crackdowns.

ANSWER: Damascus [or Dimashq]



9.One extension of this concept is the NAIRU level, which accounts for a phenomenon that existed in the United States in the late 1970s. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this economic curve first described by Irving Fisher over thirty years before its namesake, which claims that unemployment and inflation are inversely related.

ANSWER: Phillips curve

[10] This phenomenon of both high unemployment and high inflation was explained by Nitzan and Bichler as companies attempting to grow without acquiring competitors in the differential accumulation theory.

ANSWER: stagflation

[10] One measure of stagflation, the Misery Index, was created by this economist most famous for his law stating that the unemployment and GDP are related.

ANSWER: Arthur Melvin Okun



10.This man used Japanese prints in the background of his three portraits of the art dealer Père Tanguy. For 10 points each:

[10 Name this Dutch Post-Impressionist who cut off part of his ear after a fight with his then-roommate Paul Gauguin. He also painted series of wheat fields and sunflowers.

ANWER: Vincent Willem van Gogh

[10] A pot can be seen in the bottom right corner of this 1885 painting, which shows five peasants around a table consuming the title food.

ANSWER: The Potato Eaters [or De Aardappeleters]

[10] Van Gogh also painted a portrait of this man, his physician. This doctor also treated many famous artists of his day, amassing one of the largest collections of Impressionist works in the process.

ANSWER: Paul-Ferdinand Gachet [or Portrait of Dr. Gachet]



11.Its most famous exposition comes from the Proslogion of St. Anselm, and Kant's rejection of this argument rests on the contention that existence is not a predicate. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this argument that proves that God's existence is a consequence of the nature of God, a being that no greater than which can be conceived.

ANSWER: Ontological argument for the existence of God

[10] A contemporary critic of Anselm's ontological argument was this man, whose namesake island, which is the most perfect one that can be conceived, is the crux of his reductio ad absurdum refutation of Anselm's proof. 

ANSWER: Gaunilo of Marmoutiers

[10] A more modern ontological argument for the existence of God based on modal logic was put forth by this man. The first of his namesake incompleteness theorems states that there is no consistent and complete set of axioms for arithmetic.

ANSWER: Kurt Friedrich Gödel



12.The title character of this novel tutors Adele Varens after her departure from Lowood. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this novel by Charlotte Bronte in which the title character falls in love with her employer Mr. Rochester, whom she is finally able to marry after his insane wife Bertha Mason dies in a fire that destroys his manor.

ANSWER: Jane Eyre

[10] In this Daphne du Maurier novel, the crazy housekeeper Mrs. Danvers dies while burning down Manderley. This novel’s title character is the late first wife of Maxim de Winter, who marries the nameless narrator.

ANSWER: Rebecca

[10] This novel by Jean Rhys imagines the life of Bertha Mason as Antoinette, a girl growing up in Jamaica whose stepfather marries her to an unnamed Englishman whose home she decides to burn after a descent into madness.

ANSWER: Wide Sargasso Sea



13.This data structure has many varieties, including Red/Black, AVL, and B. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this data structure where each node may have children, and every node except the root has a parent.

ANSWER: trees

[10] This data structure can be represented as a tree where the root node has the highest key value, and children nodes have strictly smaller keys than their parents.

ANSWER: heaps

[10] Heap sort is a comparison based sorting algorithm that has a worst case run time of big O of this function. This function is also the worst case run time of other asymptotically optimal comparison sorts like merge sort.

ANSWER: O (n log n)



14.His many avatars include the fish Matsya and the dwarf Vamana. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this deity whose avatars also include Rama and Krishna. He is seen as the preserver within the Hindu Trimurti.

ANSWER: Vishnu

[10] Vishnu, in the guise of Lord Krishna, serves as charioteer and adviser to Arjuna prior to the Battle of Kurukshetra in this Hindu scripture taken from the Mahabharata.

ANSWER: Bhagavad Gita

[10] Arjuna, along with Bhima and his three other brothers, constitute this group of brothers who war with their cousins, the Kauravas, during the Mahabharata.

ANSWER: Pandavas



15.In this play, a letter from Larry Keller to Ann reveals that he intended to crash his plane. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this play in which Joe Keller’s surviving son Chris learns of his father’s role in approving the shipment of damaged fighter plane parts, thus preventing his business from failing but causing the deaths of twenty one pilots.

ANSWER: All My Sons

[10] This author of All My Sons wrote a play inspired by his marriage to Marilyn Monroe, in which the lawyer Quentin reflects on his relationship with the dancer Maggie, called After the Fall.

ANSWER: Arthur Asher Miller

[10] In this play by Arthur Miller satirizing McCarthyism, the slave Tituba and the farmer John Proctor are among those accused of witchcraft by Abigail and Betty.

ANSWER: The Crucible



16.Lyon’s hypothesis predicted the inactivation of these entities, and the coloration of calico cats is based on these chromosomes. For 10 points each:

[10] Name these chromosomes of which women have two and men one.

ANSWER: x chromosomes

[10] Highly condensed and inactivated x chromosomes are given this name. These entities are theorized to result in dosage compensation. Women who fail to develop these entities have Turner’s syndrome.

ANSWER: Barr bodies [prompt on partial answer]

[10] Another sex determination system is the haplodiploid system, which is often used by this order of insects that contains wasps, bees, and ants.

ANSWER: hymenoptera



17.For 10 points each, answer these questions relating to the Year of the Four Emperors.

[10] Galba, the first of the Four Emperors, took power after the suicide of this successor to Claudius. He ruled during the Great Fire of Rome and the start of the Jewish Revolt.

ANSWER: Nero Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus [or Nero Claudius Drusus Germanicus; or Lucius Domitius Ahenobarbus]

[10] The Year of the Four Emperors ended with Vespasian on the throne as the first ruler of this Roman dynasty. The other two rulers of this dynasty were Vespasian’s sons, Titus and Domitian.

ANSWER: Flavian Dynasty

[10] Vespasian was the last of the four emperors, and the previously mentioned Galba the first. Name either of the other two.

ANSWER: Marcus Salvius Otho or Aulus Vitellius [or Marcus Otho Caesar Augustus]



18.One of its chapters contains the verse “Love is patient, love is kind. It does not envy, it does not boast, it is not proud.” For 10 points each:

[10] Name this New Testament epistle, which is also the source of the phrase “through a glass, darkly,” the first of a pair written to a certain Greek city.

ANSWER: 1 Corinthians

[10] The Epistle to the Romans, as well as those to the Corinthians, are some of the many letters attributed to this figure who was blinded temporarily by the appearance of a vision of Christ during his conversion on the road to Damascus.

ANSWER: St. Paul of Tarsus [or Saul of Tarsus]

[10] Paul's blindness was cured by this man, whose baptism of Paul in Damascus is described in Acts of the Apostles.

ANSWER: Ananias



19.Physicists were up in arms after a team at CERN in September measured particles exceeding this constant; for 10 points each:

[10] Denoted c, what is this constant of proportionality between mass and energy, a speed that should not be met or passed by massive objects?

ANSWER: speed of light in a vacuum

[10] The particles which appeared to be traveling in excess of the speed of light was one of the tau flavor of these leptons, which also have muon and electron varieties.

ANSWER: neutrinos

[10] The result that neutrinos exceeded the speed of light came from this experiment designed to test neutrino oscillations by searching for tau neutrinos in a muon neutrino beam.

ANSWER: OPERA [or Oscillation Project with Emulsion-tRacking Apparatus]



20.This quantity can be calculated using the Antoine equation when a substance is near its critical point. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this quantity that is equal to the atmospheric pressure when a substance boils. This quantity for an ideal solution is equal to the product of the mole fraction, and this property depends on its components by Raoult’s Law.

ANSWER: vapor pressure

[10] One form of this equation relates pressure to temperature and the enthalpy of vaporization. This doubly eponymous equation gives the slope of the curve between phases on a phase diagram.

ANSWER: Clausius-Clapeyron Equation [prompt on partial answer]

[10] An equation named for this scientist calculates the impact of the radius of a curved surface of a liquid, such as a meniscus, on the substance’s vapor pressure. This man also names an isenthalpic process along with Joule.

ANSWER: William Thomson, 1st Baron Kelvin [or William Thomson]



21.In January 2010, the oil tanker Eagle Otome struck powerless barges in this river, spilling over ten thousand barrels of oil. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this American river formed from the confluence of the Cowleech, Caddo, and South Forks that runs about 500 miles until it empties into the Gulf of Mexico.

ANSWER: Sabine River

[10] The Sabine River forms the border between Texas and this state home to the Pearl and Atchafalaya Rivers, as well as the Mississippi Delta.

ANSWER: Louisiana

[10] This tributary of the Mississippi originates in the Texas Panhandle, where it forms the border between Texas and its northern neighbor.

ANSWER: Red River of the South

