ACF Fall 2011
Packet by Georgia Tech (Will Butler)
Edited by Sarah Angelo, Bryan Berend, Matt Bollinger, Matt Hart, Gaurav Kandlikar, and Matt Menard

1.This molecule’s activity is regulated by 2, 3 bisphosphoglycerate levels. Plasmepsins are protein produced by Plasmodium that degrade this molecule. The ability of this molecule to bind to its most common substrate decreases with pH levels according to the Bohr effect. A certain genetic disorder is caused by the replacement of glutamic acid with valine in this protein. The alpha form of this protein was translocated onto chromosome 16, and its beta forms are located on chromosome 11. Conditions affecting this tetrameric protein include thalassemia and sickle cell anemia. For 10 points, name this protein abundant in red blood cells that carried oxygen.
ANSWER: hemoglobin [or hb]

2.This being was sometimes worshiped as Amphictyonis and was the mother of Adrastus’ horse Arion. She turned Ascalabus into a lizard and turned King Lyncus into a lynx. In one story, this figure at first refused to drink the kykeon offered by Baubo, and she tried to burn away the mortality of Demophon. Erysichthon was punished with hunger for desecrating a place sacred to her. At the wedding of Harmonia, this deity has a tryst with Iasion, which leads to the birth of Plutus. She taught Triptolemus the use of the plow and the Eleusinian Mysteries were celebrated in honor of her search for her missing daughter Persephone. For 10 points, name this Greek goddess of agriculture.
ANSWER: Demeter [or Ceres]

3.To illustrate his points, this man used the example of a beauty contest run by a newspaper and a parable about bananas that are only good for a short time. This man stated that the interest rate that made the value of future returns on a capital good equal to its purchase price was the marginal efficiency of capital. The Absolute Income Hypothesis is based on this man’s consumption function. This man also introduced the notion of aggregate demand. The author of The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money, for 10 points, name this economist who advocates an active government in the economy through actions such as stimulus spending during a deficit.
ANSWER: John Maynard Keynes

4.The Fermi wave-vector is proportional to the cube-root of one form of this value for electrons. The continuity equation for fluids has a term for its time derivative. In a barotropic fluid, the pressure is only a function of this quantity, which is constant for an incompressible fluid. According to Pascal's law, the change in pressure is equal to g delta h times this value. For an ideal gas, this property is equal to P times the molecular weight over RT. Specific gravity is a ratio of this to a reference value of this quantity. This value is symbolized by a lowercase rho. For 10 points, name this property that, for mass, is the mass per unit volume.
ANSWER: density [prompt on rho before mentioned; or electron density]

5.One ethnic group of this nation has a name that translates to “those who do not cut their hair” and are the Tsimihety people. The highest annual soil losses in the world occur in this country due to the Betsiboka River. Its highest point is Maromokotro. Its capital city contains a palace complex known as the Rova that includes the Queen's Palace. Its largest seaport is Toamasina, and the largest ethnic subgroup here is the Merina. Its national language is Malagasy. This country borders the Mozambique Channel and its capital is Antananarivo. For 10 points, name this large island nation off the coast of southeast Africa that is home to lemurs.
ANSWER: Republic of Madagascar [or Repoblikan’i Madagasikara; or République de Madagascar]

6.Three glockenspiels with independent parts are in this work’s mini-section “Blanziflor and Helena.” No violins are used for the movements “Veris leta facies” and “Olim lacus colueram,” the latter of which depicts a swan roasting on a spit. The work Trionfo di Afrodite ends the trilogy of which this piece is a part. The opening movement of this work compares a deity to the waxing and waning of the moon. This work has such sections as “In Springtime,” “The Court of Love,” and “In the Tavern.” Based on a medieval collection of poems, its opening and closing invoke the Roman goddess of luck. Two “O Fortuna” movements are part of, for 10 points, what cantata by Carl Orff?
ANSWER: Carmina Burana: Secular songs for singers and choruses accompanied by instruments and magical images

7.In this novel, a little girl with a penchant for shooting cats with her air rifle fights with the protagonist’s sister. While treating a patient in this novel, the protagonist’s doctor grandfather falls in love with that patient through a hole in a sheet. The betrayal of Joseph D’Costa leads one character in this novel to choose to switch the sons of Amina and Vanita at birth. In this novel, one character who has fathered hundreds of children leads an attack on a ghetto that kills Parvati-the-witch. That character, Shiva, had found himself at odds with this novel’s narrator during a telepathic conference of the title characters. For 10 points, name this novel about Saleem Sinai by Salman Rushdie.
ANSWER: Midnight’s Children

8.This man and Rufus Isaacs came under fire for purchasing cheap shares of the Marconi company. This head of government resigned as a result of the Chanak incident. This man was responsible for the National Insurance Act and, as Chancellor of the Exchequer, he pushed for a land tax in the People's Budget. After the death of Kitchener, he was appointed Secretary of State for War. While he held that post, his country suffered massive losses at the Battle of the Somme, and, after that post, he became Prime Minister. For 10 points, name this British Prime Minister at the end of WWI and the British member of the “big four” at the Versailles peace negotiations.
ANSWER: David Lloyd George

9.Giuseppe Piermarini is best known for his design of one of these buildings, one of which was designed by Santiago Calatrava and is named for Queen Sofia. The main one in Venice is called La Fenice. Another of these buildings features decorations by Aimé Millet, a grand staircase, and The Dancers by Carpeaux. That building was designed by Charles Garnier. Ove Arup helped with the engineering work on one of these located on Bennelong Point. That building featuring large concrete shells was designed by Jorn Utzon. For 10 points, name these buildings including La Scala and an iconic one in Sydney where one can hear performers act out a libretto and sing arias.
ANSWER: opera houses

10.A work addressed to Lucius Gellius called The Enchriridion was a set of practical teachings from this school compiled by Arrian. This school distinguished adiaphora as things that were neither morally necessary nor morally prohibited. One member of this school was the author of twenty four moral epistles and Apocolocyntosis. Founded by Zeno of Citium, this school's more famous members include Seneca the Younger and Epictetus, who influenced the writings of a Roman Emperor. For 10 points, name this philosophical school whose followers sought apatheia, or freedom from emotion, and included Marcus Aurelius, the author of Meditations.
ANSWER: Stoicism

11.This man was defeated by forces under the consuls Hirtius and Pansa when he attempted to capture Decimus Brutus at Mutina. This man’s stepfather, Publius Lentulus, was executed as a member of the conspiracy of Catiline. This man was declared a new Dionysus in Greece. He was attacked as a profligate in Cicero's Philippics. This man commanded Caesar's left wing at Pharsalus and delivered Caesar's eulogy. After facing the superior admiralship of Marcus Agrippa, he fled the Battle of Actium, leading to the supremacy of Octavian. For 10 points, name this member of the Second Triumvirate and lover of Cleopatra.
ANSWER: Mark Antony [or Marcus Antonius]

12.This element has been shown to bind with Hypoxia Inducible Factor alpha. One complex with this metal at its center  is required for the functioning of methionine synthase, and a deficiency of that complex can occur as a result of a purely vegetarian diet. Along with chromium, this is the primary element in stellite alloys, and it is combined with samarium in one class of magnets. In radiation therapy, the isotope 60 of this element is used to treat cancer. This metal is found in vitamin B12. This element is often used in blue pigments, and, like iron and nickel, this element is ferromagnetic. For 10 points, name this element with atomic number 27 and symbol Co.
ANSWER: Cobalt

13.Saint Augustine used an example of an African congregation yelling every time a pastor read the word ivy in this book to criticize Jerome’s translation of a passage where God starts a question with “You were concerned for the gourd on which you did not labor.” That plant had been providing shade for the title figure, but was destroyed by a worm. The title figure claims he sank to “the roots of the mountains” in the prayer in its second chapter.  This book’s title figure goes to Joppa to find transportation and had previously been instructed to go to Nineveh, but instead fled on a ship. For 10 points, name this Biblical book about a prophet who is swallowed by a sea monster.
ANSWER: Book of Jonah [or Sefer Yonah]

14.In this play, one character hides underneath a cloak and is mistaken for a monster by two men who then get him drunk. Another character in this play sings a song that begins “Full fathom five thy father lies.” In this play, one character makes a banquet appear and disappear to taunt a man who had deposed him. That character survived Antonio’s treachery thanks to the provisions and books provided by Gonzalo. The setting of this play was once ruled by the witch Sycorax. In this play, the spirit Ariel and the deformed Caliban serve Miranda’s father. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play in which Prospero creates the title storm to shipwreck his enemy on his island.
ANSWER: The Tempest

15.John Maurice was in charge of Dutch possessions in this nation. A rebellion against this nation’s colonial ruler was launched by a man known as the “tooth puller.” In several nineteenth century conflicts, this nation's military was lead by the Duke of Caxias. This country was initially colonized for the red dye found in its namesake wood. Slavery was outlawed here through the Golden Law of Pedro II. Europe became aware of this place through the expedition of Pedro Cabral, who was able to claim it under the Treaty of Tordesillas for Portugal. For 10 points, name this South American nation colonized by Portugal.
ANSWER: Federative Republic of Brazil [or Republica Federativa do Brasil]

16.This period saw the formation of the Karoo basalt and a rift event that lead to a large dome forming in the North Sea region. The ending of the previous timespan and the beginning of this period saw the formation of the Newark Supergroup, which led to the creation of the Palisades. Nevadan orogeny and the Toarcian anoxic event occurred during this period, which also saw the closing of the Tethys ocean. The Morrison Formation is one of the most important sources of its dinosaurs, such as Allosaurus, Apatosaurus, and Stegosaurus. For 10 points, name this period of the Mesozoic era coming before the Cretaceous and after the Triassic.
ANSWER: Jurassic period

17.While explaining the title of one poem by this man, the speaker says, “I have outwalked the furthest city light.” This author of “Acquainted with the Night” also described a “dimpled spider, fat and white” in the poem “Design.” The speaker of one of this man’s poems complains about the damage done by hunting dogs and meets a man who repeats the line “Good fences make good neighbors.” One of this man’s speakers states “But I have promises to keep and miles to go before I sleep,” and another notes that “two roads diverged in a yellow wood.” For 10 points, name this poet of “Mending Wall,” “Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening,” and “The Road Not Taken.”
ANSWER: Robert Lee Frost

18.This artist’s etching Black Lion Wharf can be seen in another of his paintings. He used gold leaf decoration in a project for Frederick Leyland that includes the painting The Princess from the Land of Porcelain. Sparks from fireworks can be seen in one of his works that was compared to “flinging a pot of paint in the public's face” by John Ruskin. This artist of the Peacock Room titled many of his works after musical terms, as seen in his Symphony in White or Nocturne in Black and Gold: The Falling Rocket. For 10 points, name this artist who depicted a member of his family sitting in a room in his Arrangement in Grey and Black: The Artist’s Mother.
ANSWER:  James McNeill Whistler

19.During one event in this conflict, Governor Charles Bent was scalped and killed. One side in this conflict killed the six “Boy Heroes” while taking a military academy. Nicholas Trist negotiated the end of this conflict and infuriated the president by ignoring his instructions. Winfield Scott accomplished the first American amphibious landing by besieging Veracruz. The winning side in this conflict paid fifteen million dollars in compensation for one third of the defeated country’s territory according to the Treaty of Guadalupe-Hidalgo. For 10 points, name this 1846 to 1848 war between the U.S. and its southern neighbor.
ANSWER: Mexican-American War

20.This novelist claimed that scientific methodology could be applied to the writing of novels in his treatise “The Experimental Novel.” This man also wrote a 20 novel cycle about the title family during the Second Empire called Rougon-Macquart. In one novel by this man, the rigid Catholic Comte Muffat de Beuville is ruined by the title courtesan. This author of Nana wrote a novel in which Etienne Lantier tries to organize coal miners. This author of Germinal wrote an open letter in which he accused his government of anti-Semitism for its jailing of a French officer. For 10 points, name this French author who weighed in on the Dreyfus affair in J'Accuse.
ANSWER: Emile Edouard-Charles-Antoine Zola

21.This man defeated an invasion by a neighboring kingdom at the Battle of Amblève. He was imprisoned in his power struggle with the powerful queen Plectrude and her grandchildren. His most notable military action came after he agreed to protect Duke Odo from an invasion northward from Spain. This man defeated the Governor of Cordoba, Abd el-Rahman, in one battle, halting the Muslim advance through Europe and gaining the epithet “The Hammer.” This mayor of the palace of Austrasia was the father of Pepin the Short and the grandfather of Charlemagne. For 10 points, name this Frankish victor at the 732 CE Battle of Tours.
ANSWER: Charles Martel [or Carolus Martellus; or Karl Martell]
Bonuses: 

1.Two of these one-sided, non-orientable surfaces can be glued together to form a Klein bottle. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these one-sided objects, named for a German mathematician, that are formed by taking a strip of paper, giving it a half twist and taping the ends together.
ANSWER: Mobius Band [or Mobius Strip]
[10] Mobius strips, unlike the plane, allow the embedding of K 3,3 which is one of these graphs. They are graphs whose vertexes can be partitioned into two sets so that all edges run between the two sets.
ANSWER: bipartite
[10] All non-planar graphs can be formed by subdividing one that contains either K 3,3 or the five vertex graph of this type, which include all possible edges. In topology, this term denotes metric spaces where all Cauchy sequences converge.
ANSWER: complete

2.This composition was inspired by Vladimir Stassov's assemblage of Victor Hartmann works. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this work whose sections include Gnomus, The Hut on Fowl's Legs, and the reoccurring Promenade.
ANSWER: Pictures at an Exhibition [or Kartinki s vystavki]
[10] Pictures at an Exhibition is by this Russian composer of Night on Bald Mountain and such operas as The Fair at Sorochyntsi and Boris Gudonov.
ANSWER: Modest Petrovich Mussorgsky
[10] In the orchestrated version of Pictures at an Exhibition, the alto saxophone only plays in this second movement, which is meant to depict a troubadour singing.
ANSWER: The Old Castle

3.This country’s longest serving Prime Minister was Mackenzie King. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this North American country whose current Prime Minister is Stephen Harper.
ANSWER: Canada
[10] During this liberal’s stint as P.M. from 1968 to 1979, he handled the October Crisis, which was started by the actions of Quebec separatists.
ANSWER: Pierre Elliott Trudeau
[10] This conservative prime minister from 1984 to 1993 attempted to unify Quebec with the rest of Canada through the Meech Lake and Charlottetown Accords. He also helped negotiate NAFTA.
ANSWER: Martin Brian Mulroney

4.Electrical susceptibility times the electric field gives this quantity's namesake vector. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this property of light that has linear, circular, and elliptical types.
ANSWER: polarization
[10] Polarization can be described using this man's namesake calculus, in which vectors describe the polarization of light and his namesake matrices are operators representing polarizers.
ANSWER: Robert Clark Jones
[10] This angle is the angle at which light with a particular polarization is transmitted without reflection. It can be calculated by taking the arctangent of the ratio of the index of refraction of two media.
ANSWER: Brewster's Angle

5.It begins with a discussion of sacra doctrina and it includes five proofs for the existence of God. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this three part philosophical text that applies Aristotelean thinking to Christianity in a series of questions and responses.
ANSWER: Summa Theologica [or Summa theologiaea]
[10] This medieval philosopher wrote Summa Theologica, as well as Summa contra gentiles.
ANSWER: Saint Thomas Aquinas [or Doctor Angelicus]
[10] Thomas Aquinas referred to this Muslim philosopher as “the commentator.” Besides his influential commentaries on Aristotle, he attacked Ghazali in The Incoherence of Incoherence.
ANSWER: Averroes [or Abu al-Walid Muhammad ibn Ahmad ibn Rushd]

6.This was the primary instrument of Earl Hines and the man who wrote “Cantaloupe Island" and "Watermelon Man," Herbie Hancock. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this keyboard instrument, for which Scott Joplin wrote The Entertainer and Maple Leaf Rag.
ANSWER: piano
[10] This jazz pianist composed “Straight, No Chaser” and the most recorded jazz standard ever, “Round Midnight.”
ANSWER: Thelonious Sphere Monk
[10] This almost completely blind pianist played in a trio with Slam Stewart and Tiny Grimes. He was inspired by Fats Waller's stride style and is known for his arrangements of “Tiger Rag” and “Tea for Two.”
ANSWER: Art Tatum [or Arthur Tatum]

7.This leader wrote The Philosophy of the Revolution and nationalized the Suez Canal. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this ruler of Egypt from 1956 to 1970.
ANSWER: Gamal Abdel Nasser
[10] This dam on the Nile River was built during Nasser's rule. This dam created a lake named for Nasser.
ANSWER: Aswan High Dam
[10] Egypt was politically joined with Syria from 1958 to 1961 to form this political unit.
ANSWER: United Arab Republic [or Al-Jumhuriyah al-Arabiyah al-Muttahidah; prompt on United Arab States]

8.This warrior battled queen Medb during the Cattle Raid of Cooley, and he was originally named Setanta. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this hero who was renamed for a dog he slew and vowed to replace.
ANSWER: Cuchulainn
[10] The story of Cuchulainn is found in the Ulster cycle in the mythology of this nation, which was originally inhabited by the Fir Bolg before they were defeated by the Tuatha de Danann. 
ANSWER: Ireland [or Eire]
[10] Cuchullain was trained in the use of this weapon by a Scottish warrior woman named Scathach. It was a barbed spear that was wielded with the toes, as when Cuchulainn slew Ferdiad.
ANSWER: Gae Bolg

9.Filippo Baldinucci compared this painting technique to smoke dissolving into air, which is appropriate because its name comes from an Italian word meaning “smoke.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this technique where small brush strokes blend colors and regions together.
ANSWER: sfumato
[10] One example of sfumato is this Leonardo da Vinci painting of the wife of Francesco del Giocondo in front of a landscape. Much analysis over the years has gone into the subject's smile.
ANSWER: Mona Lisa [prompt on La Gioconda]
[10] A technique related to sfumato is this one which generally refers to strong contrasts between light and dark contrasts. Tenebrism is characterized for using this technique extensively.
ANSWER: chiaroscuro

10.Two of these functional groups are separated by an oxygen atom in acid anhydride molecules, and molecules with this functional group are reduced in the Clemmsensen reaction. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this functional group, which is simply a carbon atom double bonded to oxygen. Aldehydes posses this functional group at a terminal position.
ANSWER: carbonyl group
[10] During this reduction function, a ketone or aldehyde molecule is completely reduced to form an alkane. This reaction involves creating the reactant’s hydrazone and then treating it with a strong base.
ANSWER: Wolff-Kishner reduction
[10] The Tollens’s test, which is used to distinguish between aldehydes and ketones, makes use of this metal’s nitrate. This metal has atomic number 47 chemical symbol Ag.
ANSWER: Silver [or Argentum]

11.The shrines of this faith have gates called torii and inner sanctuaries known as honden. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Japanese religion whose name means “way of the spirits”.
ANSWER: Shintoism
[10] This term refers to spirits or mystical elements in Shinto. Examples include Izanami and Izanagi.
ANSWER: kami
[10] This holiest Shinto shrine complex located in Mie province supposedly houses the sacred mirror. Its inner Naiku shrine is dedicated to the sun goddess while the outer shrine, Geku, is dedicated to an agriculture goddess.
ANSWER: Grand Ise Shrine [or Ise Jingu]

12.SEATO was established during this man's presidency, and he sent federal troops to Arkansas to insure compliance with the Brown v. Board of Education decision. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Republican U.S. President from 1953 to 1961.
ANSWER: Dwight David Eisenhower [or Ike Eisenhower]
[10] This man was Secretary of State for most of Eisenhower's time in office. His brother was Director of Central Intelligence under Eisenhower, and, earlier, this man negotiated the Treaty of San Francisco.
ANSWER: John Foster Dulles
[10] In both the 1952 and 1956 elections, Eisenhower defeated this Democrat and one time governor of Illinois. He served as ambassador to the U.N. under Kennedy.
ANSWER: Adlai Ewing Stevenson II

13.Two of this novel's characters train an eagle named Caligula to hunt iguanas. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel in which the title Chicago-born character engages in such escapades as smuggling immigrants across the Canadian border, running off to Mexico with Thea, and marrying Stella.
ANSWER: The Adventures of Augie March
[10] The Adventures of Augie March is by this author of Henderson the Rain King and Humboldt's Gift.
ANSWER: Saul Bellow
[10] Saul Bellow’s title character Herzog addresses many of these to various people, living and dead, but never sends any. C. Auguste Dupin investigates the theft of a title one of these in an Edgar Allan Poe story.
ANSWER: letters

14.Cattell divided this into fluid and crystallized components. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this ability to understand, reason, and plan that is measured by tests that are known as its quotient.
ANSWER: intelligence
[10] This is the baseline average IQ in a standard IQ test.
ANSWER: 100
[10] This the apparent increase in IQ scores between generations in some parts of the world. Its namesake argued that this effect showed that IQ tests have a weak relationship with actual intelligence.
ANSWER: Flynn Effect

15.The autoimmune condition ALPS, which results in the disruption of lymphocyte homeostasis, occurs when this process goes awry. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this process, which takes place extensively between phalanges during the formation of fingers. This process is often called “programmed cell death.”
ANSWER: apoptosis
[10] Apoptosis occurs exactly 191 times during the development of this model organism. Sidney Brenner pioneered the use of this nematode as a model organism.
ANSWER: C. elegans [or Caenorhabditis elegans; prompt on worms]
[10] Juvenile C. elegans can enter this stage after completing the L2 developmental stage instead of entering the L3 stage. Individuals in this stage have plugged mouths, and reenter the L4 stage when resources become abundant.
ANSWER: dauer stage

16.The title character of this novel is abused by the housekeeper Mrs. Jewkes. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel parodied in the work Joseph Andrews. In this novel by Samuel Richardson, the title character resists the advances of her cruel, libertine employer Mr. B. until she ultimately agrees to marry him.
ANSWER: Pamela, or Virtue Rewarded
[10] This author parodied Richardson’s works in Joseph Andrews and Shamela. He also adapted the story of Tom Thumb in his play The Tragedy of Tragedies.
ANSWER: Henry Fielding
[10] The title foundling of this Fielding novel is raised by Squire Allworthy and ultimately marries his neighbor, Sophia Western, when his true parentage is discovered.
ANSWER: The History of Tom Jones, a Foundling

17.In 2006, this company acquired ATI and more recently it transformed its fabrication side into GlobalFoundries. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this chipmaker that produces the Phenom II line of CPUs.
ANSWER: AMD [or Advanced Micro Devices]
[10] This Brazilian aircraft maker and defense contractor's makes the Phenom 100 executive jet. Its E-jet line is intended for commercial aviation.
ANSWER: Embraer S.A.
[10] This T.V. Network aired the show Phenom in the 93-94 season. Current shows include Cougar Town and Grey's Anatomy.
ANSWER: ABC [or American Broadcasting Company]

18.This conflict began after one side’s chancellor edited the Ems Dispatch. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1870 conflict, in which France, under Napoleon III, lost the territory of Alsace-Lorraine.
ANSWER: Franco-Prussian War
[10] Napoleon III was captured at this September 1, 1870, battle of the Franco-Prussian War, which led to the end of the Second Empire.
ANSWER: Battle of Sedan
[10] This man was the primary strategist and chief of staff of the Prussian Army during the Franco-Prussian War. He also spent two years in the Ottoman Empire to help modernize its army.
ANSWER: Helmuth von Moltke the Elder

19.The title characters of one of this man’s novels flee to Scotland together. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this British author who described the affair of Constance and her gamekeeper Oliver Mellors in his novel Lady Chatterley’s Lover.
ANSWER: David Herbert Lawrence
[10] In this novel by D.H. Lawrence, Paul Morel’s attempted relationships with Miriam Leivers and Clara Dawes fail because he loves his mother Gertrude too much to marry and move away from her.
ANSWER: Sons and Lovers
[10] The title character of this Lawrence story is desperate to please his greedy mother and dies after using the title object to predict first place in the Derby and earn her a large sum of money.
ANSWER: “The Rocking-Horse Winner”

20.A village girl finds herself convicted of witchcraft in this novel. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel, narrated by the novice Adso of Melk, in which he and William investigate several mysterious deaths at a monastery.
ANSWER: The Name of the Rose [accept Il nome della rosa]
[10] This Italian author of The Name of the Rose also described a conspiracy concocted by Belbo, Diotavelli, and Casaubon in Foucault’s Pendulum.
ANSWER: Umberto Eco
[10] William, who accompanies and mentors Adso, hails from this place in Britain. Arthur Conan Doyle wrote about a hound that allegedly haunts a family of this name.
ANSWER: Baskerville

21.This river flows into Suisun Bay. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this river of California that shares its name with California's capital.
ANSWER: Sacramento River
[10] The headwaters of the Sacramento River are located near this second highest mountain of the Cascades. This dormant stratovolcano is home to the Whitney glacier.
ANSWER: Mount Shasta
[10] Suisun Bay is formed by the confluence of the Sacramento and this other river. The Friant Dam is part of a system of dams along this river that divert most of its water for irrigation and drinking.
ANSWER: San Joaquin River
