ACF Fall 2011
Packet by UC Irvine (Jeremy Eaton, Matt Johnston, Jason Luna, Kevin Nuno, Dwight Wynne)
Edited by Sarah Angelo, Bryan Berend, Matt Bollinger, Matt Hart, Gaurav Kandlikar, and Matt Menard

1.Time variances of the differential rotation of this body create “jet streams” below the surface known as torsional oscillations. Features of this body in the x-ray spectrum such as Moreton waves were observed by the Yohkoh experiment. The Ulysses spacecraft studied the magnetic field lines of this body. The tacholine separates the larger, inner radiative zone of this body from its outer convective zone. This body is surrounded by its corona, and variations in the magnetic field of this star create its namesake flares. For 10 points, name this star, which is the closest one to Earth.
ANSWER: Sun [or Sol]

2.The narrator of this work asks “holy Light, offspring of heaven’s first-born” to let him “see and tell of things invisible to mortal sight.” Two characters in this work take their solitary way “hand in hand with wandering steps and slow.” Another character in this work resolves “to wage by force or guile eternal war irreconcilable to our grand Foe” despite the arguments of Belial and Mammon. In this work, Raphael warns two characters of the plans of a fallen angel who declares that it is better “to reign in hell than serve in heaven.” For 10 points, name this epic poem by John Milton in which Adam and Eve are expelled from Eden.
ANSWER: “Paradise Lost”

3.One of his works discusses the difficulty in calling the table he sits at a physical thing in the chapter “Appearance and Reality.” This man criticized Meinong's theory of objects in a work which contrasts “the present king of England” and the “present king of France.” A small china object in orbit between the Earth and Mars which is analogized to God is known as the teapot of this author of “On Denoting” and “The Problems of Philosophy.” Defining the set of all sets which are not members of themselves leads to this man's namesake paradox. For 10 points, name this philosopher who collaborated with Alfred North Whitehead on the Principia Mathematica.
ANSWER: Betrand Russell

4.Acid-catalyzed hydrolysis of these compounds yields keto-enol tautomers. Oxidative cleavage of these compounds with potassium permanganate yields carboxylic acids. These compounds can be synthesized from aldehydes using an ylide (“ee-lide”) reagent in the Corey-Fuchs reaction, and can react with Lindlar’s catalyst to become more saturated. When these compounds react with dienes in the Diels-Alder reaction, the resulting cyclic structure has two double bonds. For 10 points, name this class of hydrocarbons which feature a carbon-carbon triple bond, whose simplest member, acetylene, is also known as ethyne. 
ANSWER: alkynes 

5.The adoption of an orphan in this work leads to an epidemic of insomnia. Another character in this novel repeatedly makes and unmakes golden fish. In this novel, one man is haunted by the ghost of a man he murdered named Prudencio Aguilar. Another man disappears with a group of gypsies and returns home to marry the earth-eating Rebeca. This novel includes a massacre of banana company workers. The first person to die in this novel’s setting is the gypsy Melquiades. Another character in this novel fathers seventeen sons, all sharing his name Aureliano. For 10 points, name this work about the Buendia family and their town of Macondo by Gabriel Garcia Marquez.
ANSWER: One Hundred Years Of Solitude [or Cien Anos De Soledad]

6.Palla Strozzi commissioned Fra Angelico’s depiction of this scene, which shows a man in red kneeling to kiss the feet of the central figure. Yellow and pink cloth hang from an object in Perugino’s version of it; that object is absent in Pontormo’s blue-dominated version of it. Another version of this scene shows a skull right below a woman in a bright blue dress lamenting on the ground. In addition to that painting by Van der Weyden, Rubens painted a triptych of this scene showing Nicodemus and Joseph of Arimathea standing on ladders while grasping a large white cloth supporting the titular figure. For 10 points, identify this scene in which Christ is removed from the cross.
ANSWER: Deposition of Christ [or Descent from the Cross before “cross” is read]

7.In this process, current can be adjusted using tightly wound coils in a process known as “shimming” in order to homogenize the involved magnetic field. This method can be used to calculate relatively long distances using the Paramagnetic Relaxation Enhancement. The simplest experiment using this method is the Continuous Wave experiment. The Larmor precession frequency is the rate at which the magnetic field rotates in this process, which most commonly uses either carbon-13 atoms or protons. For 10 points, name this spectroscopic technique applicable to nuclei with spin, which identifies the magnetic properties of nuclei.

ANSWER: nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy [or NMR spectroscopy]

8.This man vetoed the so-called “fifteen passenger bill” as being inconsistent with the terms of the Burlingame Treaty. He asked “Who is Wheeler?” upon the nomination of his Vice Presidential candidate. He campaigned on a platform including a return to the gold standard, but, during his self-imposed single term in office, Congress required silver coinage by passing the Bland-Allison Act over his veto. Despite his support of Republican Reconstruction efforts, his ascension to the White House was contingent on troops being removed from the South. For 10 points, name this nineteenth President who defeated Samuel Tilden in the disputed 1876 Presidential Election.
ANSWER: Rutherford Birchard Hayes

9.This state’s odder historical nicknames include the “Stubbed-Toe State,” and in 1995 its tourism department attempted to market the vanity plate “EZ 2 LUV” as a state slogan. This state was the last to maintain a “reasonable and prudent” daytime speed limit with no maximum. Organizations such as Carroll College and the Flathead Lake Protection Association sponsor alternative license plate designs in this state, whose standard license plate includes the slogan “The Treasure State.” For 10 points, name this state whose other nicknames include “Big Sky Country,” and which includes the cities of Butte, Billings, Missoula, and its capital, Helena.
ANSWER: Montana

10.In this novel, the protagonist finds one of his companions attempting to teach psalms to a pond full of beavers. Another character in this novel convinces the sage Tamenund to release all but one of his companions. The protagonist of this novel foils an ambush on a column of British soldiers because of his prejudice toward Hurons. This work contains a fictionalized account of a massacre at Fort William Henry, during which the daughters of Colonel Munro are abducted by Magua. For 10 points, name this historical novel by James Fenimore Cooper about the adventures of Natty Bumppo during the French and Indian War, whose title character is Chingachgook.
ANSWER: The Last of the Mohicans

11.This man founded the Kunstkamera Museum of curiosities and ordered all stillborn babies with birth defects to be sent there for display. As a boy, he organized his playmates and servants, along with German military advisors, to his “toy army,” which would later from the nucleus of the imperial guard regiments. He created the table of ranks and required lifetime service from the nobility while defeating Sweden in the Great Northern War. He introduced taxes to discourage traditional activities including bathing, fishing, beekeeping, and wearing beards.  For 10 points, name this tsar of Russia who built on the Baltic Sea the city of St. Petersburg.
ANSWER: Peter the Great [or Peter I of Russia; or Pyotr Alekseyevich; or Pyotr Veliky; prompt on Peter; prompt on Pyotr]

12.One of these structures synthesizes its namesake molecule from indole-glycerol phosphate and serine, and the fourth domain of that structure is commonly referred to as its “attenuator.” The inducer IPTG is often used in laboratories in conjunction with X-gal to detect if one of these structures is functional. These structures are transcribed as a unit into polycistronic mRNA. One of these structures codes for a permease enzyme and an enzyme that hydrolyzes its namesake polysaccharide, named beta-galactosidase. For 10 points, name these structures which code for several proteins that work in coordination, exemplified by the trp (“trip”) and lac ones. 
ANSWER: operons [accept trp operon before “IPTG”]

13.After being chosen by Ashpenaz, this man subsisted on vegetables and water for ten days rather than eat royal food. The Prayer of Azariah is sometimes included in his namesake book, along with the story of Bel and the Dragon, in which Habakkuk shares a meal with this figure. This figure interpreted a dream about a tile-footed statue made of gold, silver, bronze, and iron. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego were the names of companions of this figure who were thrown into a fire but remained unburnt. He was also able to read the writing on the wall at Belshazzar’s feast. For 10 points, name this prophet who interpreted Nebuchadnezzar’s dreams and was thrown into a lions’ den.
ANSWER: Daniel [or Daniyyel]

14.The Sufi mystic al-Hallaj was tortured and crucified during this dynastic period, ostensibly for his association with the subversive Qarmatians and a revolt of African slaves known as the Zanj. The founder of this dynasty defeated Marwan II at the Battle of the Zab. The last ruler of this dynasty, Al Mu’tasim, was rolled up in a carpet and trampled to death after losing to Hulagu Khan at the Battle of Baghdad. Its height was reached under Harun al-Rashid, a popular character in the Thousand and One Nights thought to have been compiled during this period. For 10 points, name this Muslim caliphate that succeeded the Umayyad Caliphate.
ANSWER: Abbasid Caliphate [or Abbasid Dynasty; or Abbasids]

15.Throughout this play, its characters reference a biology professor who is working on genetic modification in the hopes of creating a race of people who look like him. A history professor in this play wrote a failed novel about a boy who kills both of his parents. During the second act, titled “Walpurgisnacht,” one character announces a game of “Get the Guests,” and Honey gets so drunk that she sleeps on a bathroom floor, allowing her husband Nick to seduce George’s wife. For 10 points, name this Edward Albee play in which Martha responds “I am!” to the title bastardization of a nursery rhyme.
ANSWER: Who’s Afraid Of Virginia Woolf?

16.Hippothoon was the son of this figure as a result of this god’s possibly incestuous seduction of Alope, the daughter of Cercyon. A temple to this figure from the Archaic Period is at Sounion in Attica. Hippolytus died as a result of a wish granted by this god to the son of Aethra, who slept with this god and Aegeus in the same night. This god gave the horses Balius and Xanthus to Peleus as a wedding present. Odysseus blinded this god’s son Polyphemus. This god did not become the patron deity of Athens because Athena’s olive tree was judged superior to the salt spring he created with his trident. For 10 points, name this brother of Hades and Zeus and Greek god of the sea.
ANSWER: Poseidon

17.This musician’s song “Circle of Fourths” visits all twelve major keys in less than two minutes and appears at the end of his Shakespeare-inspired album Such Sweet Thunder. Other songs by him include “In a Sentimental Mood,” “Sophisticated Lady,” and a collaboration with Barney Bigard that was originally called “Dreamy Blues.”  Members of this man’s band included Juan Tizol, Johnny Hodges, and Bubber Miley, who may have been the source of this man’s song “It Don’t Mean a Thing.” His frequent collaborations with Billy Strayhorn produced the hit “Take the A Train.” For 10 points, name this jazz pianist and bandleader behind the hit “Mood Indigo.”
ANSWER: Edward Kennedy “Duke” Ellington

18.An oft-cited example of this tactic is the “Brooks Brothers Riot,” in which a group of out-of-state Republican Party operatives protested during the Miami recount in the 2000 Presidential Election. More recently, Americans for Prosperity’s anti-union campaign in Wisconsin has been accused of using this tactic. It is used to create the impression of independent support for a political, social, or corporate agenda, despite involving professionally run and funded events.  For 10 points, give this advocacy method that, because of its façade of grassroots activism, is named after a bright green artificial grass.
ANSWER: astroturfing [or rent-a-crowd]

19.In a failed attempt at a coup, Claude de Malet claimed that one side’s general had died on this campaign. In one of its last events, one force was decimated by cannonfire while struggling to cross two flimsy bridges over the Berezina River. One side during this campaign implemented a “scorched earth” policy to the point of burning down their own capital. During this event, Mikhail Kutusov could not stop the invading army at the Battle of Borodino, but that army suffered greatly attempting to retreat in the winter. For 10 points, name this 1812 campaign, in which Napoleon failed to conquer the nation of Tsar Alexander I.
ANSWER: the Napoleonic invasion of Russia [or the French Invasion of Russia; accept equivalents]

20.In 1926, Alberto Gentili discovered 14 volumes of music by this composer, who included the “turtle dove” aria “Veni sequere fida” in his only surviving oratorio. This composer of 37 bassoon concerti called for one, two, or four violins in the collection Harmonic Inspiration. In addition to composing Juditha triumphans, this composer worked at the Ospedale della Pietàorphanage after being ordained in 1703. Four sonnets describing a thunderstorm and icy winds accompany his best known work, which is included in The Contest Between Harmony and Invention and begins with the violin concerto “Spring.” For 10 points, name this Italian Baroque composer of The Four Seasons.
ANSWER: Antonio Lucio Vivaldi

21.One model of this phenomenon consists of a group of neural oscillators linked by a leaky integrator. Arien Mack and Irvin Rock introduced the terms “deafness” and “blindness” to denote sensory illusions caused by the lack of this phenomenon; the latter was demonstrated in a study asking people to count passes while a woman in a gorilla suit wandered into a video. Understanding a speaker in a noisy environment requires an application of this phenomenon in the cocktail party effect. For 10 points, name this phenomenon that is impaired in a disorder often paired with hyperactivity, and is the ability of a person to focus on something.
ANSWER: attention

Bonuses:

1.This organ receives blood via the hepatic portal vein, and diseases afflicting this organ include hepatitis and cirrhosis. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this largest internal organ of the digestive system, which detoxifies blood.
ANSWER: liver
[10] The liver stores this polysaccharide, which is often referred to as the animal analogue to starch. Branching in this polysaccharide is formed from acetal linkages between carbons 1 and 6 of the glucose monomers.
ANSWER: glycogen
[10] This yellowish pigment is a byproduct of the breakdown of red blood cells, which occurs in the liver. Jaundice is usually caused by high concentrations of this compound in the blood.
ANSWER: bilirubin 	

2.At the end of this play, a band of gypsies dance around the protagonist, so that he himself can be a doctor. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this play about the attempts of a sickly man to have his daughter, Angelique, marry a doctor’s son. Ironically, the author of this play died after coughing up blood while playing the title role.
ANSWER: The Imaginary Invalid [or Le Malade Imaginaire; or The Hypochondriac]
[10] This author of The Imaginary Invalid also wrote a play about a pious fraud named Tartuffe.
ANSWER: Moliere [or Jean-Baptiste Poquelin]
[10] In this Moliere play, Arnolphe attempts to raise his ward Agnes to be a faithful spouse to him, although she ultimately marries Horace.
ANSWER: The School for Wives [or L'école des femmes]

3.Despite the name of this battle, much of it was actually fought on Breed’s Hill. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this pyrrhic British victory of the American Revolution fought in Massachusetts in 1775.
ANSWER: Battle of Bunker Hill
[10] Name the American major general in command at Bunker Hill, who later participated in the retreat from Long Island and put down a mutiny at a now-namesake camp in Redding, Connecticut during the winter of 1778 to 1779.
ANSWER: Israel Putnam
[10] At Bunker Hill, Putnam legendarily told his men not to fire until they had seen these objects. The instruction became one of the most iconic phrases of the Revolution.
ANSWER: the whites of their eyes [or “Don’t fire, boys, until you’ve seen the whites of their eyes”; or answers that obviously refer to British soldiers in place of “their”; prompt on partial answer]

4.Identify the following related to vector analysis, for 10 points each.
[10] This theorem says the integral of the curl of a vector field over some surface is equivalent to the line integral of the vector field over the contour bounding that surface. Its two dimensional analogue is Green’s Theorem.
ANSWER: Kelvin-Stokes’ theorem
[10] Stokes’ theorem is a generalization of this statement from analysis, which says that, for continuous functions on some closed interval, differentiation and integration are inverse processes.
ANSWER: fundamental theorem of calculus [or FTC]
[10] The most general form of Stokes’ theorem applies to piecewise smooth varieties of these mathematical objects which are defined as topological spaces which are locally homeomorphic to Euclidean space.
ANSWER: differential manifolds

5.For 10 points each, name the following compositions by George Frederic Handel.
[10] Premiering in 1742 in Dublin, this work contains the soprano solo “I know that my redeemer liveth” and the “Hallelujah Chorus.”
ANSWER: Messiah
[10] Composed of three suites in F major, D major, and G major, this work was premiered on a barge because King George I requested a concert while floating down the River Thames.
ANSWER: Water Music
[10] This oratorio sees the chorus sing “See, the conquering hero comes” in its third section and was written to commemorate the victory of William Augustus, Duke of Cumberland, who can be likened to the titular Jewish hero.
ANSWER: Judas Maccabaeus

6.In court, this pickpocket yells, “I am an Englishman; where are my rights?” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this partner-in-crime of Charley Bates, who goes by a nickname rather than his real name, Jack Dawkins.
ANSWER: Artful Dodger
[10] The Artful Dodger introduces this orphan to pickpocketing. Earlier, this title character of a Charles Dickens novel had provoked outrage by daring to ask for more food.
ANSWER: Oliver Twist [or Oliver Twist]
[10] The Artful Dodger’s gang is led by this stereotyped “old shriveled Jew,” who is intimidated by his much-crueler associate Bill Sikes.
ANSWER: Fagin

7.These compounds have positive and negative charges at different locations which cancel out to make the compound neutral. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these compounds, exemplified by amino acids which have both carboxylic acid and amino groups. The pH indicator PSP works because it posses this property at acidic conditions but loses it in more basic conditions.
ANSWER: zwitterions [or zwitterionic or other such word forms] 
[10] pH is the measure of the concentration of this hydrated cation with formula H3O+, which is produced by the protonation of water.
ANSWER: hydronium ion [do not accept H+]
[10] This indicator is commonly used in titrations involving a weak acid and a strong base. This indicator turns a characteristic pink color when the solution has a pH greater than 8.
ANSWER: phenolphthalein [or C20H10O44; prompt on phph; prompt on Hln]

8.Prior to his election as Pope, this man was sent to Gaul in an attempt to broker peace between the generals Aetius and Albinus. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this fifth century Pope who, during a dispute with St. Hilary of Arles, received from Valentinian III a decree of the primacy of this bishopric of Rome.
ANSWER: Leo I [or Leo the Great; prompt on Leo]
[10] In 455, faced with an inevitable sack of Rome, Leo opened the city’s gates to these people. Although their name became analogous with senseless destruction, the actual sack involved mostly looting and little destruction.
ANSWER: Vandals
[10] Earlier, Leo had negotiated with this “Scourge of God,” convincing him to turn away from Rome during a 452 campaign.
ANSWER: Attila the Hun

9.In order to keep their lineage going, this group annually met up with a neighboring tribe, the Gargareans, after which they disposed of the male children. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this all-female warrior race from Greek mythology.
ANSWER: Amazons
[10] This Amazonian queen possessed a girdle that was bestowed upon her by her father Ares. Heracles was sent to snatch up said girdle as one of his twelve labors.
ANSWER: Hippolyta
[10] This sister of Hippolyta was abducted by Heracles and was later made the bride of Theseus. Another woman of the same name was raped by Zeus and was the mother of Amphion.
ANSWER: Antiope

10.This tale describes society in the year 2081, in which total equality is the law. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this short story in which the title protagonist attempts to assert his individuality by dancing with a ballerina on television before both are shot to death by Handicapper General Diana Moon Glampers.
ANSWER: “Harrison Bergeron”
[10] This author of “Harrison Bergeron” also wrote about Billy Pilgrim becoming “unstuck in time” in the novel Slaughterhouse-Five.
ANSWER: Kurt Vonnegut, Jr.
[10] In this novel by Kurt Vonnegut, Kilgore Trout inadvertently convinces Dwayne Hoover that he is the only man in the universe with free will before the narrator tells Kilgore that he has set him free.
ANSWER: Breakfast of Champions, or Goodbye Blue Monday

11.Answer the following about limiting the powers of the English monarch, for 10 points each.
[10] This charter was signed by King John at Runnymede after a group of barons demanded to protect their status from the interference of the monarchy.
ANSWER: Magna Carta [or Great Charter]
[10] This successor to John introduced a modified version of the Magna Carta with 19 fewer clauses. In 1258 the barons scored another victory when this man agreed to the Provisions of Oxford.
ANSWER: Henry III of England [prompt on Henry of Winchester]
[10] This 1628 document outlined liberties that the king could not infringe upon, including the ability to not be imprisoned without cause. It arose as the result of a dispute between Parliament and Charles I over the Forced Loan.
ANSWER: Petition of Right [do not accept “Petition of Rights”]

12.This work states that the only legitimate purpose for the exercise of power over another is to prevent harm. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this work that suggests that tyranny of the majority is a greater threat to the titular concept than tyranny of government.
ANSWER: On Liberty
[10] This man was the author of On Liberty, as well as The Subjection of Women and Utiliarianism. 
ANSWER: John Stuart Mill
[10] Utilitarianism provides one response to this thought experiment originally posited by Philippa Foot, which examines whether it is right to flip a switch to cause the death of one person if it will save many from the namesake object.
ANSWER: Trolley Problem

13.Name these storytellers from The Canterbury Tales, for 10 points each.
[10] This man is widely panned for a tale about Sir Thopas. The real version of this man wrote The Canterbury Tales, as well as The Parliament of Fowls.
ANSWER: Geoffrey Chaucer
[10] In this person’s tale, a knight has to discover what women really want and makes a pact with an old hag in order to do so.
ANSWER: Wife Of Bath [or “The Wife of Bath’s Tale”]
[10] This person tells a beast fable in which the rooster Chanticleer has nightmares about being attacked by a fox.
ANSWER: Nun’s Priest [or “The Nun’s Priest’s Tale”]

14.Answer the following about the delineation between art and not-art, for 10 points each.
[10] This readymade by Marcel Duchamp was rejected by the Society for Independent Artists for not being art. Seeing as it consists of a nonfunctional urinal placed on its side and signed “R. Mutt,” they may have had a point.
ANSWER: Fountain
[10] Edward Steichen filed the court case of this artist v. United States after he was charged a 240 dollar import tax for bringing this man’s Bird in Space into the country. This Romanian also designed the Endless Column.
ANSWER: Constantin Brancusi
[10] In 2003 the Stuckists exhibited A Dead Shark Isn’t Art, a dig at this British artist’s The Physical Impossibility of Death in the Mind of Someone Living, which consists of a shark preserved in formaldehyde.
ANSWER: Damien Steven Hirst

15.Name these economic paradoxes, for 10 points each.
[10] This paradox states that, when a community chooses from among three or more alternatives, no voting system can provide a consistent and fair ranking of the group’s preferences given individual preferences.
ANSWER: Arrow’s Impossibility Theorem [or Arrow’s Paradox]
[10] This paradox derives from an observation that countries with an abundance of non-renewable raw materials tend to have slower economic growth and worse development outcomes than those with fewer resources.
ANSWER: paradox of plenty [or resource curse]
[10] This paradox is founded on the observation that countries with large amounts of capital tend to import capital-intensive goods and export labor-intensive goods, in contradiction to the Hecksher-Ohlin theory.
ANSWER: Leontief’s Paradox

16.Answer the following about the possibly extinct baiji, a freshwater dolphin, for 10 points each.
[10] The baiji was once revered as the “goddess of” this river, the longest in China, until the Great Leap Forward encouraged its hunting.
ANSWER: Yangtze River [or Chang Jiang; or Ch’ang Chiang]
[10] A 1987 paper predicted that this giant dam would further restrict the baiji’s habitat. Its construction has displaced over one million people and made an all-around mess of the Yangtze River ecosystem.
ANSWER: Three Gorges Dam [or Changjiang Sanxia Daba]
[10] Baiji were once numerous in this lake that serves as a Yangtze River flood regulator. This legendary birthplace of dragon boat racing is considered to now be China’s second-largest freshwater lake behind Lake Poyang.
ANSWER: Dongting Lake [or Tung-t’ing Lake; or Dongting Hu; or Tung-t’ing Hu]

17.This term literally means “enlightenment being” in Sanskrit. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these beings who temporarily forsake nirvana in favor of leading others on the path to enlightenment.
ANSWER: bodhisattvas
[10] Bodhisattvas are an integral concept to this “Great Vehicle” sect of Buddhism, which includes Zen and Pure Land Buddhism. Along with Theravada, it is currently considered one of the two main branches of Buddhism.
ANSWER: Mahayana
[10] In Tibetan Buddhism, this spiritual leader is considered to be the embodiment of the bodhisattva of compassion, Avalokitesvara. The fourteenth and current man to hold the position is Tenzin Gyatso.
ANSWER: Dalai Lama [prompt on lama]

18.This cycle is divided into the themes of Love, Angst and Death and includes images of a red-headed vampire feeding on a man’s neck and an elderly woman holding the hand of an ill child in a bed. For 10 points each:
[10]Name this series of twenty-four paintings that includes such works as Death in the Sickroom and Jealousy.
ANSWER: The Frieze of Life
[10] The Frieze of Life was painted by this nineteenth-century Norwegian expressionist artist. He is best known for his The Scream, which depicts a man caterwauling on a bridge.
ANSWER: Edvard Munch
[10] Munch’s rendition of this scene shows a nude woman staring at the viewer while a man lies dead on a blood-stained bed. A better known version of this scene features the titular figure holding a pen while lying in a bathtub.
ANSWER: The Death of Marat

19.Identify the following related concepts from electromagnetism, for 10 points each.
[10] This law relates an induced electric field created by a changing magnetic field by stating that the curl of E is equal to the negative time derivative of the magnetic field. Its namesake also names the SI capacitance unit.
ANSWER: Faraday’s Law of Induction
[10] Alternatively for wires, Faraday’s Law can be written as the induced electromotive force being equal to the negative time derivative of the magnetic flux multiplied by this integer quantity, a geometric property of the wire.
ANSWER: number of loops [or number of turns; or other obvious equivalents]
[10] One can use Faraday’s Law in conjunction with the Maxwell-Ampere Law to arrive at this special case of the energy conservation law. Its namesake also has an eponymous vector that is the cross product of E and B.
ANSWER: Poynting’s theorem

20.The surname Duarte is surprisingly important in Latin American history. For 10 points each:
[10] Duarte is the maiden name of this wildly popular first lady of Argentina, who would have accepted the 1951 nomination for vice president had she not been dying of cancer at the time.
ANSWER: Maria Eva Duarte de Peron [or Evita Peron; prompt on Peron]
[10] Juan Pablo Duarte is one of the founding fathers of this country, which he helped liberate from Haitian rule.
ANSWER: Dominican Republic [or Republica Dominicana; do not accept “Dominica”]
[10] Jose Napoleon Duarte presided throughout much of a twelve-year civil war in this Central American country. In this country, the politically active Archbishop Oscar Romero was killed at the altar.
ANSWER: Republic of El Salvador [or Republica de El Salvador]

21.The second of these events occurred after the Confederation of Targowica asked for Russian intervention to restore their country’s former constitution. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these three events. The first of these events, in 1773, was an agreement between Russia, Prussia, and Austria to carve out territory from a certain eastern European nation, which was taken off the map after the third.
ANSWER: Partitions of Poland
[10] This queen of Russia agreed to take part of Poland rather than continuing to invade the Ottoman Empire. She ruled Russia during the Enlightenment.
ANSWER: Catherine the Great [or Catherine II of Russia; or Yekaterina Alekseyevna; or Yekaterina Velikaya; or Sophie Friederike Auguste; prompt on Catherine; prompt on Yekaterina]
[10] Following World War I, this strip of land was given to Poland, allowing it access to the Baltic Sea and separating East Prussia from the rest of Germany.
ANSWER: Danzig Corridor [or Gdansk Corridor; or Polish Corridor]

