ACF Fall 2011
Packet by Maryland A Team (Logan Anbinder, Arun Chonai, Chris Manners and Paul Marchsteiner) and UIC (Mike Perovanovic, Ulysses Capistran and Kevin Ngo)
Edited by Sarah Angelo, Bryan Berend, Matt Bollinger, Matt Hart, Gaurav Kandlikar, and Matt Menard

1.In one work by this man, the protagonist has written the novel A Girl of Sixteen about his former affair with a current artist, whose lesbian lover drowns his son out of resentment. This author of Beauty and Sadness fictionalized a real match he reported on in a work in which the aging Shusai is confused by the inartistic move 121. In another novel by this author of The Master of Go, Shimamura realizes he must leave the geisha Komako to her work at a hot spring resort. For 10 points, name this author of Snow Country.
ANSWER: Yasunari Kawabata

2.Many of these people were tried in a room called the “burning chamber” since it was illuminated only by torches. Frederick William, the Great Elector, offered protection for this group in the Edict of Potsdam to boost his country’s wool industry. The Prince de Conde fought to protect these people from the Duc de Guise. The failure to assassinate one of their leaders, Gaspard de Coligny, moved Catherine de Medici to arrange the St. Bartholomew’s Day Massacre against them. Louis XIV denied them toleration in the Edict of Fontainebleau, which repealed the Edict of Nantes. For 10 points, name this group of French Protestants.
ANSWER: Huguenots [prompt on French Protestants before read]

3.Playwright David Williamson wrote The Heretic about the reaction to this person’s work, and this figure was regularly seen in the company of a forked walking stick. One critic published a work called The Fateful Hoaxing of this person. The Tchambuli, Mundugmor, and Arapesh were the three titular groups studied in this figure’s Sex and Temperament in Three Primitive Societies. Her most famous work examined adolescence among another group of Pacific islanders. Criticized by Dererk Freeman, for 10 points, name this American anthropologist and author of the work Coming of Age in Samoa.
ANSWER: Margaret Mead

4.In this work, a letter saying that Aunt Rina is dying causes one character to make a hasty exit. That exit in this work leads to a misunderstanding about a lost item and the death of a character who had gone to a party at the home of Mademoiselle Diana and had been arrested after growing very drunk. That character in this work had served as a tutor to the children of Thea Elvsted while working on a book about the industry of Brabant. The title character of this play burns Ejlert Lovborg’s manuscript and, after being blackmailed by Brack about her father’s pistols, shoots herself. For 10 points, name this play by Henrik Ibsen about the manipulative wife of George Tessman.
ANSWER: Hedda Gabler

5.This emperor divided his people into four social classes based on race. He made paper money the sole currency in China. This man’s chief architect, Liu Binzhong, constructed the city of Dadu for him. He came to power after defeating his brother, Ariq Boqe, in a civil war and conquering the remnants of the Southern Song Dynasty. This founder of the Yuan Dynasty attempted to invade Japan, but lost the Battle of Hakata Bay when a huge storm called the kamikaze destroyed much of his fleet. For 10 points, name this Mongol ruler of China, the grandson of Genghis.
ANSWER: Kublai Khan [or Khubilai Khan; or Kubla Khan]

6.The Sabatier reaction results in the production of methane and this compound in the presence of a nickel catalyst. A tertiary amine is created after an amine is reacted with methyl iodide, silver oxide, and this compound in the Hofmann elimination. In an aldol condensation, this compound is removed in the final step to create a conjugated enone. It forms azeotropes with hydrochloric acid and ethanol, and its triple point is used to define the units of temperature. Its ability to dissolve many substances leads to it being known as “the universal solvent.” For 10 points, name this compound consisting of two hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atom.
ANSWER: water [or H2O]

7.In a novel by this man, the title character escapes from the vengeful James by explaining that he is too young to be the man his sister called “Prince Charming.” In one play by this man, the title object implies one character’s infidelity until her disguised mother Mrs. Erlynne claims it. In another work by this author of Lady Windermere’s Fan, confusion arises from both Cecily and Gwendolen’s wish to marry a man of a certain name until the lies of Algernon and Jack are revealed. For 10 points, name this author of The Importance of Being Earnest and The Picture of Dorian Gray.
ANSWER: Oscar Fingal O’Flahertie Wills Wilde

8.Smoke rises from a Byzantine city while people kneel down to the titular soldiers in one work by this artist, who also painted a man in white turban preparing to stab an animal that is attacking his horse. In addition to Entry of the Crusaders into Constantinople and The Tiger Hunt, this artist painted a work where naked women are slaughtered in front of the title Assyrian king. A man in a top hat and a boy brandishing pistols appear in the best-known work by this artist of The Death of Sardanapalus; that work also depicts a bare-chested woman wearing a Phygrian cap and holding a tri-color flag. For 10 points, name this French artist of Liberty Leading the People.
ANSWER: Ferdinand Eugene Victor Delacroix (“day”-lah-KWAH)

9.A sermon delivered by one participant in this event claimed that its participants were not drunk but rather were fulfilling a prophecy from the book of Joel. In the Western liturgical calendar, this event immediately precedes the second period of Ordinary Time and is celebrated using red vestments in the Roman Rite. This event also lends its name to a movement within Charismatic Christianity that is uses glossolalia. This day commemorates the event in chapter two of Acts in which the Holy Spirit descended upon the apostles. For 10 points, name this Christian holiday, sometimes called Whitsun, which is named for coming fifty days after Easter Sunday.
ANSWER: Pentecost

10.A growth factor named after this substance has been shown to increase fat cell recruitment. Receptors of this substance are normally stored as tetramers whose two kinase domains come together in the presence of this substance. Banting and Best isolate an active form of this substance by ligating a certain duct in dogs. High levels of this substance cause the movement of GLUT4 proteins to cell membranes. The autoimmune destruction of a body’s beta cells results in one disease associated with this hormone, and this hormone counteracts the effect of glucagon. For 10 points, name this hormone produced in the Islets of Langerhans that is lacking in diabetics.
ANSWER: insulin [accept insulin like growth factor until “Banting”]

11.One opera by this composer begins with David singing a “Sermon on Romance” and focuses on the reactions to a Los Angeles earthquake. The “Day Chorus” is sung in act two of his opera about the hijacking of the Achille Lauro, a cruise ship. Another of his works features the characters Edward Teller and the titular scientist. This composer of The Death of Klinghoffer also wrote an opera where the characters watch the ballet “The Red Detachment of Women,” which contains a villain played by Henry Kissinger. That opera opens with the titular President landing in Beijing. For 10 points, name this American composer of Doctor Atomic and Nixon in China.
ANSWER: John Coolidge Adams

12. This man discusses the dictum de omni and dictum de nullo in a work that discusses using intermediate predicates for rational inference in a process known as ratiocination. In another work, this man argues the clergy should have the freedom to write publicly and that the public use of one's reason must necessarily be free to bring Enlightenment. In addition to What Is Enlightenment? and The False Subtlety of the Four Syllogistic Figures, he argues for an a priori basis for morality in his Groundwork of the Metaphysic(s) of Morals. For 10 points, name this German philosopher who wrote the Critique of Pure Reason and created the categorical imperative.
ANSWER: Immanuel Kant

13. In aerodynamic theory, the value of this quantity at a point can be found by dividing the strength of the vortex by two times pi times the distance from the vortex line by an application of the Biot-Savart Law. For a vector field of this quantity, if the divergence is zero, a fluid is incompressible. The Maxwell-Boltzmann distribution describes this property of particles in gasses, and vorticity is the curl of this quantity. One effect states that an increase in this quantity occurs with a decrease in pressure or potential energy, and that effect is named for Bernoulli. For 10 points, name this vector quantity that is the measurement of the rate of change in position.
ANSWER: velocity [accept speed or rate of flow until “vector quantity”]

14.One lake in this state is surrounded by the Rim Canal, around which it may be easier to travel than cutting directly through the lake. This state, along with North Dakota, has the smallest number of earthquakes in the country. An island chain off the coast of this state has a military base on Fleming Island. The Chattahoochee River flows through this state’s panhandle. This state’s largest freshwater lake is Okeechobee. The Okefenokee Swamp is located in the north of this state, and a national park in this state features the Kissimmee River and is home to both crocodiles and alligators. For 10 points, name this state that houses the Everglades.
ANSWER: Florida

15.One section of this work features different rhythms in B-flat and E played simultaneously. Another section features a “ticking” baseline and sees a trombone melody interrupted by the ringing of bells, representing old age. In 2000, Colin Matthews composed an eighth section to it, which also contains a “mystic” movement where an offstage, female chorus fades out. A section representing peace follows the violent first movement, which features a 5/4 ostinato rhythm and is subtitled “The Bringer of War.” For 10 points, name this piece by Gustav Holst inspired by some celestial bodies.
ANSWER: The Planets

16.This work ends with a king tearing his beard when Saint Gabriel tells him of the plight of King Vivian in another land. The title character of this work hands a king an apple that represents the crowns of all of the kings of the Earth. That character is replaced by Guineman after his death, and is defended by Thierry at a council deciding the fate of his enemy. The title character has a sword named Durendal and a horn named Oliphant that he blows until his temples burst to alert his king. For 10 points, name this epic poem describing the title character’s death in an ambush on the rear guard of Charlemagne, which is one of the oldest works of French literature.
ANSWER: The Song of Roland [or La Chanson de Roland]

17.If n is “highly” this, then there is another number between n and 2n that is also “highly” this type of number. Phi of n is bounded by n minus the square root of n if n is one of these numbers and phi is the totient function. If n is one of these, then n minus one factorial is not congruent to negative one, mod n, by Wilson’s theorem. If there is a number n between 1 and x such that n to the x is not congruent to n mod x, then x is one of these numbers. Since Carmichael numbers are this type of number, the converse of Fermat’s Little Theorem does not hold. For 10 points, name this type of number that has positive divisors other than one and itself and is thus not prime.
ANSWER: highly composite numbers

18.This President was roundly mocked for ordering the Government Printing Office to adopt simplified spellings of over 300 words. In one election, he campaigned on a platform of “New Nationalism” and survived a gunshot wound from John Schrank  He arranged a Gentleman’s Agreement with Japan to restrict Japanese immigration to the United States. This man used his “bully pulpit” to pass the Pure Food and Drug act and to enact the “Square Deal.” He unsuccessfully ran for the Bull Moose Party in the Election of 1912. For 10 points, name this trustbusting President.
ANSWER: Theodore Roosevelt [or Teddy Roosevelt; or TR]

19.In one work by this author, Brenda breaks up with Neil after her parents find her diaphragm. This author also described a character who plants a bomb in a post office and then runs away from her father Swede Levov. This author of “Goodbye, Columbus” and American Pastoral wrote a novel about Athena College professor Coleman Silk, who is forced to quit his job after being accused of racism. The title character of another novel by this man narrates his story to Dr. Spielvogel. For 10 points, name this creator of the recurring character Nathan Zuckerman and author of The Human Stain and Portnoy’s Complaint.
ANSWER: Philip Milton Roth

20.The victors of this battle were slowed in their pursuit because of an ambush at the mal fosse. The winning side used frontal attacks to weaken the enemy's shield wall, allowing them to weaken the cohesion of the losing army by barraging them with arrows. Before this battle, one side’s army had been depleted in the Battle of Stamford Bridge. Harold Godwinson was killed during this battle, as depicted on the Bayeux Tapestry. For 10 points, name this 1066 battle, the key battle in the Norman conquest of England.
ANSWER: Battle of Hastings

21.One song named after this figure describes a boy with “his mother’s eyes, his father’s ambition” and laments, “I wonder if he knows how much that I miss him.” Another song titled after this man has a bridge that assures the listener, “It’s all right, you can all sleep sound tonight, I’m not crazy or anything,” and is subtitled “It’s Not Easy.” Perhaps the most famous song by this name is used as the theme for a certain TV show and has a chorus that asserts, “I can’t do this all on my own.” For 10 points, give this common name of songs by Lazlo Bane and Five for Fighting, which are used on Scrubs and Smallville, respectively.
ANSWER: “Superman”

Bonuses:

1.Flowers lie on the floor as a naked woman rests on a coach in this artist’s depiction of Marie-Louise O'Murphy, and he depicted a family eating a meal in Le Dejeuner. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this French artist who depicted a naked woman holding a dove in his The Toilet of Venus.
ANSWER: François Boucher
[10] Boucher was a proponent of this artistic style that followed the Baroque era and focuses on curving, natural forms in ornamentation. The “fête galantes” of Jean-Antoine Watteau also exemplify this style.
ANSWER: Rococo
[10] Another Rococo artist, Elisabeth Vigee Le Brun, is known for her many portraits of this queen. Jacques-Louis David created a sketch of her right before her death. 
ANSWER: Marie Antoinette Josephe Jeanne d’Autriche-Lorraine [or Maria Antonia Josepha Joanna von Österreich-Lothringen]

2.Name these philosophers associated with famous phrases, for 10 points each.
[10] This Spanish philosopher wrote the work The Last Puritan, but he is most famous for his often paraphrased statement, “Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it.”
ANSWER: George Santayana [or Jorge Agustin Nicolas Ruiz De Santayana]
[10] Santayana claimed “Philosophy begins in media res” in this most famous epistemological work, which urges humans to listen to the title instinct.
ANSWER: Skepticism and Animal Faith
[10] In a letter to Mandell Creighton, written in April 1887 regarding the papal infallibility crisis, this man made his mark on history by stating, “All power tends to corrupt and absolute power corrupts absolutely. “
ANSWER: John Emerich Edward Dalberg-Acton

3.One song by this band has a yodeling echo of “yodelayeoo” in response to the titular declaration, and another declares of the titular food, “I didn’t eat it, but it ate you.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this band whose songs include “I Need More Allowance” and “Killer Tofu.”
ANSWER: The Beets
[10] The Beets are a fictional band on this 90’s cartoon that was produced by Nickelodeon and then Disney. Its title protagonist writes in his journal, has a dog named Porkchop, and has the alter ego Quailman.
ANSWER: Doug
[10] This girl is Doug’s crush throughout the series. At the end of the show, she asks Doug on a date.
ANSWER: Patti Mayonnaise [or Patti Mayonnaise]

4.Examples of this term include assault, battery, and false imprisonment. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this term, defined as any wrongful act that is grounds for a civil suit.
ANSWER: torts
[10] Torts are examples of wrongdoings without one of these, a binding legal agreement enforceable in a court of law or arbitration.
ANSWER: contracts
[10] This type of law promotes or maintains market competition by limiting contracts that would create monopolies, examples of which include the Sherman and Clayton Acts in the United States.
ANSWER: antitrust law

5.These figures have lived anywhere from 72 to quintillions of years, and the first was named Rishaba. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these figures whose collective name is Sanskrit for “ford maker,” and who are particularly enlightened beings whose most recent member was named Mahavira.
ANSWER: Tirthankaras
[10] Tirthankaras are central to this Indian religion whose practitioners follow the five Mahavrata, or “great vows,” which include ahimsa, or “nonviolence.”
ANSWER: Jainism [or Jains]
[10] This Jain sect’s name translates to “sky-clad,” an allusion to the fact that monks of the sect wear no clothes, as opposed to their “white-clad” brethren who wear white clothes.
ANSWER: Digambara

6.Name these things related to Kepler's laws, for 10 points each.
[10] Kepler's first law states that every planetary orbit has this shape. These shapes have eccentricities between 0 and 1, where an eccentricity of 0 corresponds to a perfect circle.
ANSWER: ellipses [or elliptical]
[10] This property of an ellipse cubed is proportional to the square of the orbital period according to Kepler's third law. In general it is equal to one half of the longest diameter of an ellipse.
ANSWER: semi-major axis
[10] Although Kepler's second law can be interpreted as the conservation of angular momentum, it can also be seen as a statement regarding the constancy of this quantity, which when multiplied by 2 times the mass yields angular momentum.
ANSWER: areal velocity

7. In 1901, this man sculpted the Mares of Diomedes, the first American sculpture bought by the Metropolitan Museum of Art. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this American sculptor who did not complete his monument to Robert E. Lee and other Confederates at Stone Mountain, Georgia.
ANSWER: Gutzon Borglum
[10] Borglum may be best known for carving the faces of George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, Teddy Roosevelt, and Thomas Jefferson into this mountain in North Dakota.
ANSWER: Mount Rushmore National Memorial
[10] Gutzon Borglum’s sculpture of Philip Sheridan can be found in this city. Daniel Chester French’s sculpture of Abraham Lincoln and a black-granite memorial designed by Maya Lin can also be found here.
ANSWER: Washington, D.C.

8.During the process of ratifying this treaty, Henry Clay argued that Spain should give up Texas as well.  For 10 points each:
[10] Name this treaty that granted Florida to the United States. One of the signatories was James Monroe's secretary of state.
ANSWER: Adams-Onis Treaty [or Transcontinental Treaty]
[10] In exchange for Florida, the United States gave up some of the disputed lands from this earlier purchase, which Thomas Jefferson received from Napoleon in 1803.
ANSWER: Louisiana Purchase
[10] The United States had already acquired control of some of the lands in East Florida during the first war against this Indian tribe. Its later leaders included Osceola.
ANSWER: Seminoles

9.This character cheats on his wife Lucy with Sadie Burton and Anne Stanton. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this corrupt politician who becomes the liberal governor of his southern state with the assistance of Jack Burden. He is based on Huey Long.
ANSWER: Willie Stark [or Willie Stark]
[10] Willie Stark and Jack Burden appear in this novel, in which it is revealed that Governor Stanton covered up Judge Irwin’s acceptance of bribes.
ANSWER: All the King’s Men
[10] This author of All the King’s Men also served as poet laureate and is the only man to have won Pulitzer Prizes for both fiction and poetry.
ANSWER: Robert Penn Warren

10.Sonatas and Interludes is a collection of twenty pieces for this instrument, which is also featured in The Perilous Night. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this instrument created by attaching various materials, such as screws and pieces of plastic, to the strings of a certain instrument.
ANSWER: prepared piano [prompt on piano]
[10] This American composer wrote many works for the prepared piano, and he also wrote a work where the performer doesn’t do anything for the title amount of time called 4’33’’.
ANSWER: John Milton Cage, Jr.
[10] Cage studied under this Austrian composer who developed the twelve-tone technique. A poem by Richard Dehmel inspired his sextet Transfigured Night.
ANSWER: Arnold Schoenberg

11.He was cuckolded by a bull after his wife Pasiphae hid inside a wooden cow. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this son of Zeus and Europa and father of Phaedra who ruled Crete.
ANSWER: Minos
[10] This man was the builder of that wooden cow, as well as the labyrinth that housed the minotaur and the wings he and his son Icarus used to escape Crete.
ANSWER: Daedalus
[10] This man was a brother of King Minos and a judge of the dead in the Greek underworld alongside Minos and Aeacus.
ANSWER: Rhadmanthus

12.Name some things about common tasks in computer science, for 10 points each.
[10] A naïve algorithm for performing this task on an array takes linear time in the worst case, but faster algorithms exist for sorted data. In general, this task involves finding a specific item among a collection.
ANSWER: searching
[10] In general, this task consists of lexical analysis and syntactic analysis on a source string. It can be done “top-down” or “bottom-up” and namesake structures for doing this include LL and recursive descent.
ANSWER: parsing
[10] Parsing is an essential component of these programs that construct parse trees in order to transform a high level source language into a lower level target language.
ANSWER:  compilers

13.Identify the following Russian authors, for 10 points each.
[10] This author wrote about a judge who falls while hanging curtains in his apartment in The Death of Ivan Ilyich.  This man also wrote such novels as Anna Karenina.
ANSWER: Leo Tolstoy [or Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy]
[10] This other Russian author collected such short stories as “Raspberry Water” and “The District Doctor” in his collection A Sportsman’s Sketches. He also wrote about the nihilist Bazarov in Fathers and Sons.
ANSWER: Ivan Sergeyevich Turgenev
[10] This Russian writer wrote about the superfluous man Pechorin in A Hero of Our Time. He earned the moniker “poet of the Caucasus” for poems such as “Demon” and “Borodino.”
ANSWER: Mikhail Lermontov

14.Answer the following about the battle of Sekigahara, for 10 points each.
[10] Sekigahara ended the secession struggle after the death of this man. He unified Japan after Oda Nobunaga.
ANSWER: Toyotomi Hideyoshi [or Hideyoshi Toyotomi; or Hiyoshimaru]
[10] This victor at Sekigahara established a namesake shogunate that lasted into the nineteenth century.
ANSWER: Tokugawa Ieyasu
[10] The teppo-tai at Sekigahara wielded these forerunners of modern rifles. Introduced to Japan by Portuguese traders, these matchlock guns were the first firearms to be fired from the shoulder.
ANSWER: arquebuses

15.Name some things about molecular orbitals, for 10 points each.
[10] An azimuthal quantum number of one corresponds to this kind of orbital that has a shape resembling two dumbbells. The first element to have electrons in this orbital is Boron.
ANSWER: p orbital
[10] The ‘mixing’ of orbitals occurs in this phenomenon. Examples of orbitals that have undergone this process include sp3.
ANSWER: orbital hybridization [or hybrid orbitals]
[10] Orbital hybridization was first proposed by this scientist, who earlier forumulated a triple-helical structure for DNA. This scientist also developed the alpha-helix and beta-sheet structure of proteins.
ANSWER: Linus Carl Pauling

16.Name the following works of George Bernard Shaw, for 10 points each.
[10] In this play, the munitions factory owner Andrew Undershaft eventually persuades his title daughter to preach to his workers after she is disgusted by the donation of his “tainted money” to the Salvation Army.
ANSWER: Major Barbara
[10] In this Shaw play, Ann Whitefield controversially pursues a marriage to Jack Tanner. This work’s third act, Don Juan in Hell, is sometimes performed separately and sometimes as Tanner’s dream.
ANSWER: Man and Superman
[10] In this work, Henry Higgins bets Colonel Pickering that he can pass off the Cockney flower girl Eliza Doolittle as a duchess after a month of lessons in speech and manners.
ANSWER: Pygmalion

17.Name these notable figures from the late Roman Republic, for 10 points each.
[10] This Roman general reinstated the position of dictator after invading Rome a second time in the Social War, during which he competed with Gaius Marius.
ANSWER: Lucius Cornelius Sulla Felix
[10] The third Servile War was led by this former gladiator whose slave army was defeated by Crassus.
ANSWER: Spartacus
[10] Pompey fought against Spartacus as well as this ruler of Pontus. The Battle of Lycus ended this King’s namesake border wars with Rome.
ANSWER: Mithradates VI Eupator Dionysus [or Mithradates the Great]

18.This pair of scientists based their most prominent discovery on Rosalind Franklin’s x-ray crystallography, and this pair of scientists shared a Nobel prize with Maurice Wilkins. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this pair of scientists who described the double helical structure of DNA. They also lend their names to a rule that describes the bonding between adenine and thymine and guanine and cytosine.
ANSWER: James Dewey Watson and Francis Harry Compton Crick
[10] Single stranded DNA and RNA can exist in this structure, in which complementary base pairs flanking a region bond to form the namesake U shaped structure.
ANSWER: hairpin loops
[10] The fact that G-C bonding involve three hydrogen bonds as opposed to the two of A-T bonding is important when designing these structures that allow DNA polymerase to synthesize new DNA in polymerase chain reactions.
ANSWER: primers

19.Answer some questions about the works of Isabel Allende, for 10 points each.
[10] This Allende novel follows several generations of the Trueba family, including the hacienda owner Esteban, whose granddaughter Alba is tortured during a military coup.
ANSWER: The House of the Spirits [or La Casa de los Espiritus]
[10] The title character of this Allende novel realizes that her relationship with the guerrilla Huberto should be platonic and falls in love with Rolf, an Austrian who films the guerrilla movement.
ANSWER: Eva Luna
[10] Allende employed this style in works such as The House of the Spirits, in which Clara can move saltcellars without touching them. This style combines the ordinary with elements of fantasy.
ANSWER: Magical Realism

20.This man’s most famous work describes the concept of “friction,” the set of random factors that change a military action’s actual performance from its ideal performance. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this thinker, who described war as “Politics carried on by other means” in On War.
ANSWER: Carl Philipp Gottlieb von Clausewitz
[10] Clausewitz was captured after this 1806 battle. At this battle and the contemporaneous battle of Auerstedt, Napoleon crushed the Prussian army and forced Friedrich Wilhelm III to capitulate.
ANSWER: Battle of Jena-Auerstedt
[10] Blücher and Clausewitz arrived just in time to save the Duke of Wellington in this last battle of the Napoleonic Wars. This battle is commonly referred to as Napoleon’s ultimate downfall.
ANSWER: Battle of Waterloo

21.Name some rivers located in the United Kingdom, for 10 points each.
[10] This second longest flowing river in the UK flows through central London but also passes through Oxford, Reading, and Windsor, and it flows into the North Sea.
ANSWER: River Thames
[10] This river is formed from the confluence of two rivers and flows through northeast England starting at Hexham and flowing through Northumberland. This river is mentioned in the song This is a Low by Blur.
ANSWER: River Tyne
[10] This longest river in the United Kingdom rises in the Cambrian Mountains in the middle of Wales and is discharged into the Bristol Channel.
ANSWER: River Severn
