ACF Fall 2011

Packet by Minnesota A (Eliza Grames, Lauren Johnson, Robin Heinonen) and MIT A (Stephen Eltinge, Andre Kessler, Josh Alman, Neil Gurram)

Edited by Sarah Angelo, Bryan Berend, Matt Bollinger, Matt Hart, Gaurav Kandlikar, and Matt Menard



1.In the 1930s in Paris, Alexander Kojeve composed a series of lectures on the work of this philosopher, who was studied in America in the St. Louis and Cincinnati Schools. He discussed symbolic, classical, and romantic art in the second part of Lectures on Aesthetics. This man claimed that history follows the orders of reason in his Philosophy of History, and he wrote of Doctrines of Being and Essence in his Science of Logic. Bruno Bauer was a member of a “Young” society named for this man. For 10 points, name this German philosopher, the author of a passage about a master and slave in his Phenomenology of Spirit, in whose namesake dialectic thesis and antithesis form a synthesis.

ANSWER: Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel



2.By Rice's Theorem, all nontrivial properties of the set of languages accepted by these objects are undecidable. They are 7-tuples that include a transition function that maps a state and input symbol pair to a triple consisting of a new state, a new symbol, and a direction. Modifications to these objects include multi-track and multi-tape versions. They can be visualized as a read/write head moving along an infinitely long input/output tape. They cannot decide the halting problem, but all computable functions can be computed by one according to a thesis co-named for Church. For 10 points, what are these theoretical machines named for a British mathematician and code-breaker?

ANSWER: Turing Machines



3.One piece in this composition begins with an E major chord and violins playing over a pizzicato background. Another piece in this work ends with two outbursts representing the lamenting of a kidnapped bride. Tambourine and piccolo are used in an Arabic dance in this work, which includes “Asa’s Death” and “Anitra’s Dance.” The flutes introduce a theme representing dawn in another piece in this work, whose most famous part uses an increasing tempo to depict trolls chasing a man; those parts are “Morning Mood” and “In the Hall of the Mountain King.” For 10 points, name this piece of incidental music to a Henrik Ibsen play by Norwegian composer Edvard Grieg.

ANSWER: Peer Gynt [or Peer Gynt Suites]



4.A giant sea turtle ate travelers that were tricked into touching the ones of the bandit Sciron. Talos died when the nail was removed from this part of his body. Scorpius stung Orion on this body part, also the site of Hercules being attacked by a crab while fighting the Hydra. Skadi selected her husband Njord based only on seeing this body part, because his were beautiful from the sea. Oedipus had his pierced when he was left to die as an infant. For 10 points, name this lower body part, onto which Hermes’ wings are sometimes directly attached rather than to his sandals.

ANSWER: feet [accept foot, ankle, heel, or any body part below the knee]



5.The surface of this organelle contains the CRM1 protein, which mediates leucine rich export signals and mediates transport of the U class of certain molecules, and those molecules are modified by this organelle’s GEMS and Cajal (ca-hal) bodies. snoRNAs function in one process in this organelle, and snRNPs (snurps) aid in the post-transcriptional modification of mRNA in this organelle. The membrane surrounding this organelle dissolves during prophase. Ribosome synthesis occurs in a particularly dense and unbounded region of this organelle, whose lipid bilayer has many of its namesake pores. For 10 points, name this organelle which stores chromosomes.

ANSWER: nucleus



6.This leader sent Fritz von Holstein to spy on the ambassador to France, Harry von Arnim, and find evidence to try him for treason. He gained several new territories for his country in the Peace of Nikolsburg, which ended a war in which his forces won the decisive Battle of Königgrätz. This man authorized Adalbert Falk to pass the May Laws as part of his targeting the Catholic Church in his Kulturkampf. After his appointment by Wilhelm I, this man practiced realpolitik as chancellor of Prussia. For 10 points, name this German statesman known as the “Iron Chancellor.”

ANSWER: Otto Eduard Leopold von Bismarck



7.The Von Neumann-Morgenstern theorem gives conditions under which this quantity can be defined for a rational actor. In an Edgeworth box, all gradients of this quantity are parallel along the contract curve. While only order matters in the “ordinal” type, a player with a concave “cardinal” type of this curve would not enter some lotteries with positive expected money payoff. A distribution of resources where this could not be increased for anyone without decreasing it for someone else is Pareto efficient. This quantity is constant along indifference curves. Rational people try to maximize, for 10 points, what measure of satisfaction?

ANSWER: utility



8.One depiction of this man shows him handing his resignation to Thomas Mifflin; that painting is located in the same building as a work by Constantino Brumidi in which he holds a sword and is surrounded by thirteen angels in heaven. This man is shown next to a table in the Landsdowne portrait, and his “Apotheosis” is on the ceiling of the Capitol rotunda. Another portrait of him is Gilbert Stuart’s “Athenaeum” portrait. Grant Wood’s Parson Weem’s Fable shows this man holding an axe near a cherry tree, and Emanuel Leutze showed him in a boat crossing the Delaware River. For 10 points, name this U.S. President who can also be seen on the dollar bill.

ANSWER: George Washington



9.This man was challenged to a duel by his nemesis Jesse Elliott, but declined and attempted to have him court-martialed instead. He died on a diplomatic mission to Venezuela to discuss the problem of piracy with Simon Bolivar. This man carried a battle flag emblazoned with the last words of James Lawrence, “Don’t Give Up the Ship.” After his flagship sunk, this man took command of the Niagara to defeat six heavy vessels under Barclay near Put-In-Bay. For 10 points, name this man who said “We have met the enemy and they are ours” after winning the Battle of Lake Erie.

ANSWER: Oliver Hazard Perry



10.An allegorical reading of one letter by this man relates his brother’s easier struggle with faith through his choice of a direct path as opposed to this man’s circuitous route up a mountain. This author of “The Ascent of Mount Ventoux” also wrote an epic poem about the victory at the battle of Zama by Scipio Africanus. This humanist puns on the name of a woman he fell in love with on Good Friday in his poem “she used to let her golden hair fly free.” For 10 points, name this Italian poet of the Canzoniere, which contains many works of his namesake sonnet form written to Laura.

ANSWER: Petrarch [or Francesco Petrarca]



11.Fragments of folk tunes called “popevki” comprise most of the music in one ballet by this composer, who wrote a work based on music by Pergolesi that ends with Pimpinella marrying the title character. In addition to Les Noces and Pulcinella, this man also composed a work in which thirteen princesses lure Ivan into the castle of the evil Kastchei, who is forced to dance by the title creature. “The Sacrifice” and “Adoration of the Earth” are the two sections of his best known ballet, which opens with a bassoon solo and caused riots at its 1913 Paris premiere. For 10 points, name this Russian composer of The Firebird and The Rite of Spring.

ANSWER: Igor Fyodorovich Stravinsky



12.Ethnic tensions flared in this country after the assassination of Minister of Justice Tom Mboya. This country’s first president advocated local development initiatives with a policy called Harambee, or “Pulling Together.” A rebellion against its colonial leadership began after the seizure of the White Highlands region and was led by Dedan Kimathi. This country’s competing ethnic groups include the Luo and Kalenjin peoples, as well as the Kikuyu, who led the Mau Mau Rebellion. For 10 points, name this country whose cities include Mombasa and Nairobi.

ANSWER: Republic of Kenya [or Jamhuri ya Kenya]



13.An expression for this quantity involving partial fugacity is called the thermodynamic form of this quantity. The change in enthalpy over the gas constant times the temperature squared is the logarithmic derivative of this quantity with respect to temperature according to the van ‘t Hoff equation. The direction of a reaction can be determined by comparing this quantity to the reaction quotient. This quantity is equal to the concentrations of the products raised to their stochiometric coefficients divided by the concentrations of the reactants raised to their stochiometric coefficients. For 10 points, name this constant that is attained when there is no net reaction.

ANSWER: equilibrium constant



14.This man is abandoned in a restaurant when Letta and Miss Forsythe distract his two companions. During World War II, this man gave a pair of nylon stockings to his mistress. The words of this man’s older brother, “When I walked into the jungle, I was seventeen…when I walked out…by God, was I rich!” haunt this husband of the devoted Linda during his series of flashbacks, which also include his refusal to make his son study math in order to win a football scholarship. This man decides to commit suicide to leave a $20,000 life insurance policy to his sons Biff and Happy. For 10 points, name this title character of Arthur Miller’s Death of a Salesman.

ANSWER: Willy Loman [prompt on Loman]



15.Governor Stirling authorized mounted police to kill members of this group of people at the Battle of Pinjarra. These people traded some of their land for blankets and knives in Batman’s Treaty. National Sorry Day was established for these people after the Bringing Them Home Report was published. Many of these people were taken from their families and integrated into white culture, becoming the Stolen Generation. Prime Minister Kevin Rudd gave an official apology to these people. For 10 points, name this group of people native to Australia.

ANSWER: Aborigines [accept word forms such as aboriginals]



16.Adherents of this religion believe in the Law of Three and the Tenant of the Rede, as well as in Akasha, the fifth element. The two primary traditions of this religion are Gardnerian and Alexandrian. This religion’s meetings, known as esbat, begin with the fivefold kiss and involve an athame dagger. Its festivals include Beltane and Samhain. Aradia, the daughter of Diana, and Iseult, Eos, Kore, and Brighid are all aspects of this religion’s Goddess, who changes from Maiden, to Mother, and to Crone. For 10 points, name this religion that worships the Horned God and the Triple Goddess, which is a neopagan religion symbolized by a pentagram and which meets in covens.

ANSWER: Wiccan [or witchcraft]



17.In one of this author’s novels, the title character is found growing pumpkins before he is taken to a hospital in which he refuses to speak. In another novel by this author, the narrator is hung from a tree by his wrists for returning a mutilated girl to her village. In that novel by this author of Life and Times of Michael K, Colonel Joll’s brutality shocks the Magistrate out of complacency. This author also described how poems by Wordsworth and Byron torment David Lurie during his affair with a student. For 10 points, name this South African author of Waiting for the Barbarians and Disgrace.

ANSWER: John Maxwell Coetzee



18.This singer’s alter ego, Bernard Shakey, has made such films as Rust Never Sleeps and Silver & Gold. This man sang that he needs “someone to keep [his] house clean, fix [his] meals and go away” and sang, “I watched the needle take another man.” In addition to the songs “A Man Needs a Maid” and “The Needle and the Damage Done,” this man’s hits include “Old Man” and “Out on the Weekend.” This singer has “been to Hollywood” and “Redwood” and is “growing old” while searching for the title object of one of his song’s that he’s “been a miner” for. That song, “Heart of Gold,” appears on his album Harvest. For 10 points, name this singer, the Y of CSNY.

ANSWER: Neil Young



19.Making a complex exponential ansatz transforms the Hamilton-Jacobi equation into a variant of this equation, which is a diffusion equation with imaginary diffusion constant. Its electronic form is used in the Born-Oppenheimer approximation and can be in turn solved using the Hartree-Fock method. Solutions to this equation satisfy local conservation of probability and must be normalizable. The Klein-Gordon and Dirac equations are Lorentz-invariant alterations of it. The time-independent form of this equation contains an energy eigenvalue E. For 10 points, name this equation written “i h-bar d psi d t equals H psi,” an equation from quantum mechanics whose solutions are wavefunctions.
ANSWER: Schrödinger equation



20.In one novel by this man, the protagonist saves Weena from drowning and later uses two flowers she had given him as proof of his journey for Hillyer. This man also wrote a novel in which Captain Davies leaves the protagonist with Montgomery and a doctor who was shamed out of England. In that novel by this man, Prendick’s companion the Saint-Bernard-Man is killed by the Hyena-Swine. In another work by this author of The Island of Dr. Moreau, Dr. Kemp leads Griffin to become increasingly ruthless when he reveals the results of his experiments with refraction to the police. For 10 points, name this author of The Time Machine and The Invisible Man.

ANSWER: Herbert George Wells



21.The central plateau of this country is bordered by the Jura Mountains to the north. Lake Maggiore is the lowest point in this country, only a short distance from the highest peak, Monte Rosa, located in the city of Valais in this country. Some regions of this country, such as Graubünden, are notable for speaking Romansh. Near Schaffhausen in this country, the Rhine River passes through the Rhine Falls, Europe’s largest waterfall. For 10 points, name this country whose other geographical features include Lake Geneva and the Matterhorn, with its capital at Bern.

ANSWER: Switzerland [or Swiss Confederation; or Schweizerische Eidgenossenschaft; or Confederation Suisse; or Confederazione Svizzera; or Confederazuin Svizra]





Bonuses: 



1.Much of the information on this empire was collected by the historian Al-Bakri. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this empire also called Wagadu, whose eleventh century capital was at Kumbi Saleh. It was the main power in West Africa from the eigth to the eleventh centuries, when it was subsumed into Mali.

ANSWER: Ghana Empire

[10] Ghana bartered for gold with its southern neighbors to trade it to northern merchants for this crucial resource.

ANSWER: salt

[10] Ghana was temporarily conquered by this dynasty of Berbers, which also controlled Spain until the rise of the Almohads. One of its rulers, Yusuf ibn Tashufin, won the battle of Al-Zallaqah.

ANSWER: Almoravid Dynasty [or Al-Murabitun]



2.One method of performing this action relies on the fact that dideoxynucleotides lack the terminal -OH group that allows polymerase to synthesize DNA. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this process, one type of which was developed by Frederick Sanger. The Human Genome Project made use of both the Sanger and “shotgun” types of this process.

ANSWER: DNA sequencing [accept word forms like sequencing DNA or figuring out DNA sequences]

[10] This multiplex method of studying gene expression, which is often called a ‘lab on a chip,’ involves hybridizing fluorescent cDNA onto its namesake glass plate.

ANSWER: DNA microarray

[10] The cDNA used in microarray is synthesized from this type of RNA, which is synthesized during transcription. It conveys information from the nucleus to the ribosomes.

ANSWER: messenger RNA



3.For 10 points each, answer the following about paintings by Jacques-Louis David.

[10] One of David’s best known works is one that depicts the death of this Greek philosopher. In that painting, he is giving a speech while reaching for a cup of hemlock.

ANSWER: Socrates [or The Death of Socrates]

[10] David’s Oath of the Horattii shows the father holding up three of these objects, one for each of his sons who are pledging their allegiance.

ANSWER: swords

[10] First exhibited at David’s own home, this 1799 painting shows Hersilia and other women in the middle of a battle, trying to bring it to an end. Babies crawl on the ground, unaware of the violence that surrounds them.

ANSWER: The Intervention of the Sabine Women [or L'intervention des Sabines; do not accept “The Rape of the Sabine Women”]



4.On this path, a Roman first gained prestige by serving in the military, then could become a quaestor, aedile, and praetor in succession. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this sequence of offices, through which a Roman magistrate rose in prominence.

ANSWER: Cursus Honorum

[10] During the republic, the peak of the cursus honorum was this office. The two colleagues who held this office concurrently were the most powerful men in the government.

ANSWER: consuls [or consules]

[10] Only plebeians could hold this office, designed to defend them against other magistrates. They were allowed to veto any act by any magistrate as long as they were physically present.

ANSWER: tribunes [or tribunus]



5.This heteroatom is single bonded to two R groups in ethers, and aromatic compounds with this heteroatom include benzoic acid. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this heteroatom bonded to a hydrogen and an R group in aldehydes, which is also present in carboxyllic acids. It has atomic number 8 and a molar mass of 16.00 grams per mol.

ANSWER: oxygen [or O]

[10] Oxygen is also found in esters, which can be synthesized using a reaction named for this German chemist. This chemist also names a projection of organic compounds in which the carbons are lined up vertically.

ANSWER: Herman Emil Fischer

[10] This aromatic compound is characterized by an -OH group bonded to a benzene ring. This compound, along with acetone, is formed from the oxidation of cumene.

ANSWER: phenol [prompt on C6H5OH]



6.In Book One of this poem, Una marries the Red Cross Knight after he escapes the evil Duessa. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this work also featuring the female knight Britomart and her beloved Artegall. The title character of this work, Gloriana, represents Elizabeth I.

ANSWER: The Fairie Queene

[10] This author of The Fairie Queene also wrote a sonnet sequence for his eventual wife.

ANSWER: Edmund Spenser

[10] This aforementioned sonnet sequence corresponds with readings from the Book of Common Prayer and opens with a poem celebrating Spenser’s marriage. One of its poems promises, “My verse, your virtues shall eternalize.”

ANSWER: Amoretti



7.The villain’s name is drowned out during a reading of the Megillah during this holiday, during which participants give gifts of food after fasting the day before. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this Jewish holiday on the 14th of Adar that celebrates victory over a ruler who sought to bring about the destruction of the Jewish people.

ANSWER: Purim

[10] This Old Testament book is read on Purim. It tells the story of a woman whom Ahasuerus found beautiful and pleads on behalf of her people at the urging of her cousin Mordechai.

ANSWER: Book of Esther

[10] This is the aforementioned villain whose name is drowned out when it is read. This prime minister to Ahasuerus sought to kill all the Jews after Mordechai refused to bow to him.

ANSWER: Haman



8.For 10 points each, answer the following about the Renaissance architect Filippo Brunelleschi.

[10] Brunelleschi may be best remembered for designing the dome for the cathedral in this Italian city, which is also home to the Santa Maria Novella and the Uffizi gallery.

ANSWER: Florence [or Firenze]

[10] Filippo Brunelleschi lost to this man in a competition to design the doors of the octagonal Florence Baptistry. Those eastern doors were dubbed the “Gates of Paradise” by Michelangelo.

ANSWER: Lorenzo Ghiberti

[10] This building was Brunelleschi’s first major architectural commission. It features a long façade with tondos above the columns. Despite drawing from classical designs, it helped usher in a new style of the Renaissance.

ANSWER: L’Ospedale degli Innocenti [or Hospital of the Innocents]



9.It can be derived from Huygens’ principle, or from Fermat’s principle of least time. For 10 points each:

[10] What is this law named for a Dutch astronomer that relates the angle of refraction of light passing between two media to the indices of refraction of those media?

ANSWER: Snell’s law

[10] When applied to a mechanical system, Fermat's Principle has implications for this quantity, defined as the time integral of the Lagrangian. The Euler-Lagrange equations governing the values that it may take are equivalent to Newton’s Laws of motion.

ANSWER: action

[10] The Euler-Lagrange equations were developed in connection with solutions to this problem. It involves finding a curve on which the time an initially motionless object takes to reach the lowest point is independent of its starting position.

ANSWER: tautochrone problem or curve [or isochrone]



10.This deity was banished from Tahiti for fighting with her sister Na-mako-o-Kaha’i, the Goddess of the Sea. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this goddess of fire who resides in Kilauea and created several islands via volcanic eruptions.

ANSWER: Pele

[10] Pele is a goddess from the mythology of these people, whose other deities include I’o (ee-oh), the source of all who breathed life into Kane, the creator god. Temples from this mythology are called heiau (hay-ow).

ANSWER: Hawai’ian Mythology [prompt on Polynesian]

[10] Another creation story of the Hawai’ian Islands involves this trickster deity, who pulled them up from the ocean on his fishing line. In Maori mythology, this figure lengthens the day by restraining the sun with a jawbone.

ANSWER: Maui



11.The protagonist of this work meets his old preacher, Jim Casy, under a tree after he is released from McAlester Prison. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this John Steinbeck novel about the Joad family, who travel to California in search of work during the Dust Bowl.

ANSWER: The Grapes of Wrath

[10] This eldest girl in the Joad family is married to Connie before he abandons her. After her baby is stillborn, this woman nurses a starving man in an attempt to save his life.

ANSWER: Rose of Sharon Joad Rivers [or Rosasharn; prompt on Rivers; prompt on Joad]

[10] In this other Steinbeck novel, Mack and the other inhabitants of the title location at first fail miserably at throwing a party for the kind biologist Doc, but they learn to plan more carefully and throw him a better one.

ANSWER: Cannery Row



12.This man created the film scores for Lieutenant Kijé and Alexander Nevsky. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this Soviet composer who also used an oboe to represent a duck and the strings to represent a boy in his piece Peter and the Wolf.

ANSWER: Sergey Sergeyevich Prokofiev

[10] Prokofiev’s fourth piano concerto can be played in this manner. Twentieth century works dedicated to pianist Paul Wittgenstein are played in this manner.

ANSWER: playing with one hand [or playing with the left hand]

[10] A piece often transcribed for left hand is this composer’s Revolutionary Etude, which features runs of sixteenth notes on the left hand. This man also wrote many polonaises, nocturnes, and mazurkas.

ANSWER: Frédéric François Chopin [or Fryderyk Franciszek Szopen]



13.This man forced the count Palatine and ten other nobles to carry dogs for a German mile for quarreling with Archbishop Arnold. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this twelfth century Holy Roman Emperor who launched numerous campaigns in Northern Italy. He died when he drowned on the Third Crusade, and he is known for his red beard.

ANSWER: Frederick Barbarossa [or Frederick I Hohenstaufen; or Frederick III of Swabia; prompt on Frederick]

[10] Frederick Barbarossa was opposed by this confederation of Northern Italian cities. It was supported by Alexander III and won the Battle of Legnano.

ANSWER: Lombard League

[10] Frederick repeatedly besieged this northern Italian city on his campaigns. Its later ruling houses included the Sforza and the Visconti.

ANSWER: Milano



14.The protagonist of this work learns about “the sickness” afflicting a city from a barman, before seeing posters warning people not to eat shellfish or drink canal water. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this work in which Gustav von Aschenbach falls in love with the boy Tadzio and thus refuses to leave the title Italian city for his health.

ANSWER: Death in Venice [or Der Tod in Venedig]

[10] Death in Venice is a novella by this German author who also wrote about the decline of the title merchant family in Buddenbrooks and Hans Castorp’s time in a sanitarium in The Magic Mountain.

ANSWER: Thomas Mann

[10] In this other work by Mann, the hypnotist Cipolla is shot by the other title character in the resort Torre di Venere at the conclusion of his performance.

ANSWER: Mario and the Magician [or Mario und der Zebaurer]



15.One of these objects is orbited Dysnomia, and these objects must clear their own objects, be spherical in shape, and orbit the sun. For 10 points each:

[10] Name these astronomical objects, examples of which include Ceres and Eris.

ANSWER: dwarf planets [do not accept or prompt on “planets”]

[10] This dwarf planet was demoted from being a planet in 2006 because it does not clear the orbit that it shares with its satellite Charon.

ANSWER: Pluto

[10] Sedna and Eris belong to this group of objects that are found between the Kuiper Belt and the Oort cloud. Objects in this group have highly eccentric orbits which deviate from the ecliptic orbit.

ANSWER: scattered disk objects



16.This organization sought relief for flood victims in Pakistan. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this world organization whose headquarters in Nigeria were bombed by a member of Boko Haram.

ANSWER: United Nations [or UN]

[10] This Palestinian leader has filed a bid for recognition of the Palestine State by the UN, despite Obama’s promises that the U.S. will veto the vote in the Security Council.

ANSWER: Mahmoud Abbas [or Abu Mazen]

[10] This current U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations called Abbas’s bid “dangerous and counterproductive” as well as “unwise.”

ANSWER: Susan Elizabeth Rice



17.This river is formed at the base of Canby Mountain in Colorado and flows into the Gulf of Mexico. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this river that forms a natural border between Texas and Mexico.

ANSWER: Rio Grande [or Río Bravo del Norte]

[10] The Rio Grande flows through a namesake rift at the southern end of the Franklin Mountains just to the west of this city.

ANSWER: El Paso

[10] This city is separated from El Paso by the Rio Grande and is named after the first indigenous national ever to serve as President of Mexico.

ANSWER: Ciudad Juárez



18.This man allegedly carried around a lantern during daylight to search for an honest man. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this man who acted like a dog and behaved obscenely in public, a founder of the Greek Cynic School of philosophy.

ANSWER: Diogenes of Sinope

[10] This other ancient philosopher was a member of the Eleatic school and discussed situations like Achilles racing a tortoise and an arrow in flight in his namesake paradoxes.

ANSWER: Zeno of Elea

[10] This second century AD author of Outlines of Pyrrhonism and Against the Mathematicians is one of the few extant authors from the ancient school of Skepticism. 

ANSWER: Sextus Empiricus



19.In the first part of this work, Satoko joins a convent to avoid marrying a prince. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this tetralogy that includes Spring Snow and The Decay of the Angel, in which Shigekuni Honda encounters his friend Kiyoaki Matsugae’s reincarnations as an accomplished young man, a princess, and an orphan.

ANSWER: The Sea of Fertility

[10] This Japanese author wrote The Sea of Fertility. This author of Confessions of a Mask also described the former acolyte Mizoguchi’s choice to burn down the title structure in The Temple of the Golden Pavilion. 

ANSWER: Yukio Mishima [or Kimitake Hiraoka]

[10] After failing to inspire a military coup, Mishima performed this action. In a Sophocles play, Ajax performs this action with a blade that had been given to him by Hector.

ANSWER: committing suicide [or seppuku; or any answer making it clear that he kills himself]



20.Answer these questions about twentieth century Supreme Court cases, for 10 points each.

[10] This Supreme Court justice, appointed by Teddy Roosevelt, delivered the unanimous majority opinion in Schenck. This justice dissented in Abrams v. United States and was known as the Great Dissenter.

ANSWER: Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr.

[10] Holmes dissented on this case in which a New York baker pushed for longer working hours.

ANSWER: Lochner v. New York [or New York v. Lochner]

[10] This other case decided that inaccurate statements only count as libel when there is a malicious intent. It arose after the publication of the article “Heed Their Rising Voices.”

ANSWER: New York Times v. Sullivan [or New York Times v. Sullivan]



21.One of this man's works discusses the responsibilities of intellectuals in revolutionary situations and discusses the need of “absolute violence” to purify the world. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this cultural theorist from Martinique who wrote about the importance of the lumpenproletariat in The Wretched of the Earth.

ANSWER: Frantz Fanon

[10] Frantz Fanon also wrote this work in which the “epidermalization” of the subject causes an inferiority complex and claims that the subject will appropriate and imitate the dominant culture code.

ANSWER: Black Skin, White Masks [or Peau Noir, Masques Blancs]

[10] Frantz Fanon critiqued this sort of imperial practice, which involves industrial countries taking political control of less developed countries and exploiting their resources.

ANSWER: colonialism [accept like terms]

