ACF Fall 2011
Packet by OSU A (Nandan Gokhale, Jarret Greene, Asanka Nanayakkara, Joe Wells)
Edited by Sarah Angelo, Bryan Berend, Matt Bollinger, Matt Hart, Gaurav Kandlikar, and Matt Menard
 
1.One method of synthesizing these compounds involves reacting carbon monoxide, hydrochloric acid, and a Lewis acid with a benzene ring. Reacting primary alcohols with PCC yields these compounds, which are made in the Gatterman-Koch reaction. Copper II is reduced to copper oxide in the presence of these compounds in Fehling’s test. The presence of a silver mirror distinguishes them from a similar type of compound in Tollen’s test. Unlike ketones, these compounds have a terminal carbonyl carbon. For 10 points, name these compounds with general formula R-CHO, whose simplest member is formaldehyde.
ANSWER: aldehydes

2.One of this man’s writings is the source of the maxim “The strong do what they can and the weak suffer what they must.” This man was exiled for 20 years when, as a general, he was blamed for the capture of Amphipolis. This man included the Melian Dialogue in his major work, which also contains a notoriously difficult-to-translate Funeral Oration. In that work, he described the Ionian Revolt, the Sicilian Expedition, and the Athenian plague. For 10 points, name this Greek historian who wrote a History of the Peloponnesian War.
ANSWER: Thucydides

3.In one of this author’s novels, the title character discovers his own heritage while trying to help Mirah Lapidoth find her family. This author of Daniel Deronda created a character in another novel who sees Philip Wakem against the wishes of her brother, his sworn enemy. Those siblings created by this author are reunited before they drown together during a flood of the title river. In addition to that novel about Tom and Maggie Tulliver, this author wrote a work in which the death of Edward Casaubon allows his cousin Will Ladislaw to marry Dorothea Brooke. For 10 points, name this author of The Mill on the Floss and Middlemarch.
ANSWER: George Eliot [or Mary Ann Evans]

4.In one story from this work, a man kills a woman who baked a stone into his bread by making her think a bear was a cow. Another scene in this work sees a man turn a pike’s bones into a harp that can soothe the people of Pohjola to sleep while he takes an object rooted in a copper mountain. One of this work’s protagonists has to flee to the Isle of Refuge in eagle form, and earlier that character tried to kill the Swan of Tuonela. Featuring Kullervo, this work includes the wedding of the character who forged Sampo. Including Ilmarinen, Lemminkainen, and Vainamoinen, for 10 points, name this work collected by Elias Lonnrot that serves as the national epic of Finland.
ANSWER: Kalevala

5.Wynton Kelly played piano on only one track of this album, whose longest track is a 12-bar blues in 6/8 time. The song “Impressions” follows the same chord progression as its opening track. Bassist Paul Chambers and drummer Jimmy Cobb both played on this album, which includes such songs as “Blue in Green” and “Flamenco Sketches,” the latter of which features the pianist Bill Evans. Both “Cannonball” Adderley and John Coltrane play saxophone on this album, which was followed in 1960 by the recording of Sketches of Spain and opens with the tracks “So What” and “Freddie Freeloader.” For 10 points, name this high-selling jazz album by Miles Davis.
ANSWER: Kind of Blue

6.In this novel, the janitor Burma Jones writes the name of his cruel employer’s nightclub on the back of the pornographic photos she sells, leading to her arrest. The protagonist of this novel works with the elderly Miss Trixie before he is fired for attempting to lead a factory strike. This work’s protagonist also fails in his work as a hotdog salesman because he eats more than he sells. When his mother wishes to commit him to an asylum, the Dr. Nut soda and Boethius-loving protagonist of this novel is rescued by his girlfriend Myrna Minkoff. For 10 points, name this novel by John Kennedy Toole about Ignatius J. Reilly.
ANSWER: A Confederacy of Dunces

7.This faith teaches that there are 36 levels of heaven and twice as many inhabited planets, of which Earth is the 68th. Men in this religion enter temples from the right while women enter from the left. Members of this religion pray four times a day starting at 6 A.M. In this faith, God is represented by a divine left eye, usually shown on the side of a sphere, and adherents follow the Three Teachings of the Buddhas, Sages, and the Saints. This faith mimics the structure of the Catholic Church, utilizing cardinals and a pope. This religion’s Holy See is at Tay Ninh, and recognizes saints such as Sun Yat-sen and Victor Hugo. For 10 points, name this syncretic Vietnamese religion.
ANSWER: Cao Dai [or Dai Dao Tam Ky Pho Do; or The Great Religion of The Third Period of Revelation and Salvation]

8.The creation of this type of substance generally starts by putting atoms in a magneto-optical trap, immediately followed by an evaporative method. In attempting the first synthesis of this type of substance, Wolfgang Ketterle worked with sodium atoms, while contemporaneously Eric Cornell and Carl Wieman succeeded with rubidium atoms. Atoms in this type of substance are all at the lowest quantum level. For 10 points, name this “fifth state of matter” in which atoms are brought very close to absolute zero in a substance named after a German and an Indian physicist.

ANSWER: Bose-Einstein Condensate [or BEC]

9.One character in this novel breaks off an affair with a professor by moving to Paris and then the United States. That character is an artist who hates kitsch and becomes friends with another lover’s wife after she finds her a job as a photographer. The protagonist of this novel is a libertine who falls so in love with a waitress that he gives up his political freedom to return to her. Because of his anti-Communist writings, the protagonist of this novel cannot remain a surgeon and ultimately moves to the countryside. There, Tomas and Tereza die in a car accident. For 10 points, name this novel by Milan Kundera.
ANSWER: The Unbearable Lightness of Being

10.This thinker published some notes on Goethe's Theory of Colours, and he used an argument by G.E. Moore in a work that claims doubt is embedded in underlying beliefs. In addition to Remarks on Colour and On Certainty, this thinker wrote a set of notes that present his method for linguistic analysis in his Blue Book. He uses the “beetle in a box” thought experiment to refute the possibility of a private language in one work. This thinker organized seven propositions in order to link language, science, and reality in another. For 10 points, name this Austrian philosopher who wrote Philosophical Investigations and Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus.
ANSWER: Ludwig Josef Johann Wittgenstein

11.The life cycle of organisms in this phylum include the planula stage. The anatomy of one form of these organisms includes the velum, which is absent in this phylum’s class scyphozoa. The action of nectophores propel some members of this phylum. The mesoglia is thick in members of this phylum, whose mouth and anus point downwards. The sessile organisms in this phylum are called polyps. Nematocysts in these organisms contain toxins thta are released when their cnidocil (nye-do-sil) is triggered. Organisms in this phylum include the Portuguese Man o’ War. For 10 points, name this phylum that contains sea anemones, coral, and jellyfish.
ANSWER: cnidaria [or cnidarians]

12.This people’s cities were ruled by two judges called suffetes. Philo of Byblos translated the works of the possibly mythical Sanchuniathon, who detailed the mythology of this civilization. One city founded by this civilization sent Hanno the Navigator to explore the west coast of Africa. They gained their name from a purple dye that their seafaring merchants were known for trading. This civilization founded the cities of Tyre, Sidon, and Carthage. For 10 points, name this ancient Mediterranean civilization, which developed an alphabet that influenced the Greek one.
ANSWER: Phoenicia [or the Phoenicians; or Carthage, Tyre, or Sidon before read, since clues apply to those cities by extension]

13.This thinker included a volume entitled “The Origin of Table Manners” and traced the origin of a myth from South America to the Arctic. This man’s escape from his home country and work with his wife among the Namibkawra and Bororo of Brazil was detailed in his Tristes Tropiques. This thinker outlined his theory of why trickster gods are represented by ravens and coyotes in one work. In that same work, he coined the term “bricolage” to describe the creation of mythologies, as contrasted with the engineered. For 10 points, name this anthropologist and author of The Savage Mind whose four-part Mythologiques includes “The Raw and the Cooked.”
ANSWER: Claude Levi-Strauss

14.One composer of this surname wrote a cycle of 13 piano pieces entitled The Year and died during a performance of the cantata The First Walpurgis Night. That composer is also thought to have greatly influenced the oratorio St. Paul. Another composer of this surname composed the Reformation Symphony, a String Octet in E-flat major, and a work sometimes called “Fingal’s Cave.” That work, the Hebrides Overture, was composed around the same time as his third symphony, which is subtitled “Scottish.” That composer dedicated one of the pieces in his Songs without Words to his sister, Fanny. For 10 points, name this surname of the Romantic composer Felix.
ANSWER: Mendelssohn [or Fanny Mendelssohn; or Felix Mendelssohn]

15.In one of this city’s rivers, the General Slocum caught fire, killing over 1,000 members of St. Mark’s Lutheran Church. While in this city, Lieutenant-Governor Francis Nicholson was overthrown by the German-born militia leader Jacob Leisler. In 1863, rioters angry at the draft killed many of this city’s blacks. This city was the site of Nathan Hale’s execution. This city was the home of Tammany Hall, as well as the site of the Zenger trial. For 10 points, name this city, which, as capital of New Netherland, was called New Amsterdam.
ANSWER: New York City

16.In this novel, Commissar Gintz climbs onto a water barrel to defend himself from charges of being a German spy but is shot when he slips into the water. The protagonist of this novel spends time with the “Forest Brotherhood,” which is commanded by a cocaine addict named Liberius. Another character in this novel is shot in the arm by a woman who is engaged to a man known as “the Shooter” for his habit of executing captured soldiers. That woman meets the protagonist of this work while working as a nurse in a field hospital and moves away with Komarovsky. For 10 points, name this work about the love of Lara for the title character, a novel by Boris Pasternak.
ANSWER: Doctor Zhivago

17.According to one story about this substance, it was taken by Eva Peron on her Rainbow Tour of Europe, and the Bigelow Report deals with this substance. The Chiemsee Cauldron is one example of this substance that may be at the bottom of Lake Toplitz. In 2000, the World Jewish Congress launched a lawsuit against Swiss Banks in order to recover this substance. Walther Funk was sentenced to death at Nuremberg for his role in acquiring this substance. For 10 points, name this substance that the government of Adolf Hitler took from the banks of Europe and fillings of concentration camp victims, which is widely believed to be still-hidden in South America and Central Europe.
ANSWER: Nazi Gold

18.The influence of Robert Delauney can be seen in this artist’s painting where a cat sits on a window sill looking out at the Eiffel Tower. A burning house, an army with red flags, and other scenes of violence float around Jesus Christ in another work. This artist used the image of a parachuting man in his Paris Through the Window and in a painting where a man holds a palette and has extra appendices on one hand. In addition to The White Crucifixion and Self-Portrait with Seven Fingers, this artist also painted a work where two houses and a woman are upside-down and a man with a green face stares at a large goat. For 10 points, name this Belarussian artist of I and the Village.
ANSWER: Marc Chagall

19.A central phenomenon exhibited by these objects is explained by the Kappa mechanism. Classification within these objects is determined by the member’s metallicity. Measurements done on these objects help calculate Hubble’s constant. W-Virginis stars are part of the Type II class of these stars. These stars are generally found in the instability strip of the Hertzsprung-Russell diagram. Along with R R Lyrae stars, these stars are often used as standard candles to measure astronomical distances. A notable example of one of these is Polaris, which has fluctuating luminosity values. For 10 points, name these stars often used as reliable standard candles in measuring astronomical distances.
ANSWER: Cepheid Variable Star [accept variable stars until “type II,” prompt on it thereafter]

20.These people were frequently subject to charges known as “banalities.” In England, a group of these people were spurred to anger by a sermon containing a notable rhyme about “when Adam delved and Eve span.” The priest John Ball preached to these people in a rebellion during the reign of Richard II. Also known as villeins, this class of people behind Wat Tyler’s Rebellion lived on a manor and were obliged to perform corvee labor for a lord. For 10 points, name this lower class of the medieval feudal system.
ANSWER: peasants [or serfs; or villeins before it is read]

21.One awesome species that lives in this river is the Giant Tigerfish, which has been known to attack humans and crocodiles. The Inga Dams lie on this river, which features the Malebo Pool. This river is the second most voluminous but the deepest in the world and its tributaries include the Lomami and the Kasai, which runs through Angola. The Livingston Falls prevent boat access to the sea through this river, and it also includes the Stanley Falls. Sources of this river include Lake Tanganyika. Kinshasa and Brazzaville lie on, for 10 points, what second largest river in Africa and namesake of two central African countries.
ANSWER: Congo River

Bonuses:

1.One notable section of this work uses the example of a man chasing a squirrel around a tree to help illustrate the title concept. For ten points each:
[10] Name this philosophical essay subtitled “A New Name for Some old Ways of Thinking.”
ANSWER: Pragmatism
[10] Pragmatism was written by this American thinker who also wrote The Varieties of Religious Experience and the groundbreaking Principles of Psychology.
ANSWER: William James
[10] Divided into ten sections, this 1896 lecture by James drew much criticism from thinkers like Alfred Henry Lloyd. It revolves around defending the right to religious faith without religious evidence. 
ANSWER: The Will to Believe

2.This man’s personal residence features two iron gates large enough for horse-drawn carriages and a room dominated by chimneys and colorful ceramic pieces called trencadís. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Spanish textile magnate who lends his name to an unfinished “Church of Colònia” and to a park featuring a long bench and several ornate mosaics.
ANSWER: Eusebi Güell Bacigalupi
[10] Güell was a patron of this Spanish architect who died after getting hit by a trolley car. His major works include the Casa Milà and a giant, uncompleted church set to be finished in 2026 called the Sagrada Família.
ANSWER: Antoni Gaudí i Cornet
[10] Many of Gaudí’s works, including the Park Güell and the Casa Milà, are located in this city, the second largest in Spain. Ludwig Mies van der Rohe designed a “Pavillion” here for the 1929 International Exhibition.
ANSWER: Barcelona

3.One king of this name established a law code called the “Siete Partidas” and strove with Richard of Cornwall for the post of Holy Roman Emperor. For 10 points each:
[10] Give this shared regnal name, the tenth of whom was known as “el Sabio,” or “the Wise.”
ANSWER: Alfonso
[10] Alfonso the Wise ruled over this Spanish kingdom, which was ruled by Queen Isabella when she married Ferdinand of Aragon.
ANSWER: Castile
[10] This autonomous community in the northwest of Spain contains the pilgrimage site of Santiago de Compostela. It is known for its high rainfall and verdurous terrain.
ANSWER: Galicia

4.Their myths include a creator God who rose out of a lake and made the sun, moon, stars, and mankind. That god wandered the earth as a beggar before walking into the Pacific Ocean, never to return again. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this myth system that included the creator god Viracocha.
ANSWER: Incan Mythology
[10] This Incan god is often said to be the son of Viracocha and the husband of Mama Quilla. This sun god was also the patron deity of the Inca capital Cuzco.
ANSWER: Inti
[10] K’uychi, the god of this phenomenon, was considered to be the heavenly form of the Mother Tree Sach’mama. In Greek mythology, this meteorological phenomenon was associated with the messenger goddess Iris.
ANSWER: rainbows

5.The speaker of this poem exhorts, “Come to the window, sweet is the night-air!” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poem that exclaims, “Ah, love, let us be true to one another!” and concludes, “we are here as on a darkling plain…where ignorant armies clash by night.”
ANSWER: “Dover Beach”
[10] This author of “Dover Beach” also defined culture as “the best which has been thought and said” in his essay collection Culture and Anarchy.
ANSWER: Matthew Arnold
[10] The speaker of this Arnold poem muses over the title character, who left Oxford 200 years earlier and promises to “to the world impart” “the secret of [his new people’s] art, when fully learned.”
ANSWER: “The Scholar Gypsy”

6.This man’s 11th symphony was subtitled “The Year 1905.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Russian composer of the “Babi-Yar” Symphony as well as an opera based on a work by Nikolai Leskov called Lady Macbeth of the Mtsensk District. That opera was later condemned by Joseph Stalin.
ANSWER: Dimitri Dmitriyevich Shostakovich
[10] This Shostakovich composition was written in C Major and features an “Invasion Theme” depicting German troops attacking the title Russian city, which stood against a long siege in World War II.
ANSWER: Symphony No. 7 [or Leningrad Symphony]
[10] Originally titled “Dyamiadia,” this Shostakovich ballet depicts a soccer game between the vibrant Soviet state and the decadent Western European state, and it featured the “Tahiti Trot.”
ANSWER: The Age of Gold [or The Golden Age; or Zolotoy Vek]

7.This event came about in part due to a prediction based on Daniel 8:14. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this event that occurred on October 22, 1844, when followers of William Miller followed him into a field to await the second coming and nothing happened.
ANSWER: Great Disappointment
[10] Followers of Miller and victims of the Great Disappointment would go on to create this church, which believes that the second coming of Christ will come on a certain day of the week.
ANSWER: Seventh Day Adventist Church [or SDA]
[10] One former Seventh Day Adventist was this man, who gave the “The Ballot or the Bullet” speech and founded Muslim Mosque, Inc., before being assassinated.
ANSWER: Malcolm X [or Malcolm Little; or El Hajj Malik El-Shabazz]

8.Answer these questions on things that happen in mechanics, for 10 points each.
[10] Name this quantity that is conserved in a collision regardless of elasticity.
ANSWER: momentum
[10] This quantity for a collision can be found by taking the ratio of the difference in the speeds between two objects after and before the collision. For an elastic collision, this quantity is equal to one.
ANSWER: coefficient of restitution
[10] Elasticity also describes the phenomenon explained by this law, which states that restoring force exerted by a spring is proportional to its displacement.
ANSWER: Hooke's Law

9.With Pedro the Cruel, this man won the Battle of Najera. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this father of Henry IV and Duke of Lancaster. He served as regent during the minority of Richard II.
ANSWER: John of Gaunt [or John, Earl of Richmond; prompt on John, Duke of Lancaster]
[10] John of Gaunt was the younger brother of this man, who led the siege of Calais and defeated Jean le Bon at the Battle of Poitiers.
ANSWER: Edward The Black Prince [or Edward of Woodstock; prompt on Edward]
[10] Poitiers occurred during this war, where the French were defeated on a muddy battlefield at Agincourt.
ANSWER: Hundred Years’ War

10.Name these Edgar Allen Poe short stories, for 10 points each.
[10] In this story set during the Inquisition, the narrator discovers one title object while measuring the perimeter of his cell and the other hanging from a painting of Father Time. He is saved by a soldier at the last minute.
ANSWER: “The Pit and the Pendulum”
[10] In this tale, William Legrand is bitten by the title creature and then becomes obsessed with trying to find treasure buried by Captain Kidd on Sullivan’s Island.
ANSWER: “The Gold-Bug”
[10] The narrator of this story is driven mad by an old man’s “Vulture-eye” and confesses to murdering him after hearing the title object.
ANSWER: “The Tell-Tale Heart”

11.It is 1908 and Franz Josef has just annexed Bosnia. Let’s take a tour through the areas of the Dual Monarchy. For 10 points each:
[10] From Vienna we move south to this region of northern Italy and southern Austria that Italy gained following World War I. It contains the city of Trent.
ANSWER: Tyrol [or Tirolo]
[10] A few days journey east brings us to this mountainous region to the east of Hungary that in the future will form the modern state of Romania along with Wallachia. It was home to a dude named Vlad.
ANSWER: Transylvania [or Erdély; or Siebenbürgen]
[10] Heading northwest, we find ourselves in this region that formed a historical union with Bohemia, most notably when under Nazi occupation. Its largest city is Brno.
ANSWER: Moravia

12.For ten points each, answer these questions on the Mexican war of independence:
[10] Command of the Mexican Rebel forces was first under this man, who famously rallied support through his famous “Cry of Dolores” speech. He is considered the “Father of Mexico.” He was captured and subsequently executed following the Battle of Calderon Bridge.
ANSWER: Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla
[10] Rebel forces were finally led to victory by this former Spanish commander who switched sides and subsequently crowned himself the first emperor of Mexico.
ANSWER: Agustín de Iturbide [or Agustin I of Mexico]
[10] Iturbide was overthrown less than a year later by this Mexican general who later became president. He led Mexican troops during the Battle of the Alamo and was defeated by Sam Houston at the Battle of San Jacinto.
ANSWER: Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna Perez de Lebron

13.Name the following terms from analytical chemistry. For 10 points each:
[10] This technique is used to analyze the concentration of solutions, and it is performed by adding one solution to another through a burette. It is often used to determine the acidity or basicity of solutions.
ANSWER: titration
[10] This general technique separates components in a mixture based on their relative polarities. All types of this technique include a mobile and stationary phase, and it comes in column, gas, and thin layer types.
ANSWER: chromatography
[10] Samples are converted into gas phase ions that are then sorted by their m/z (“m to z”) ratios in this analytical technique. The ionization of the sample is done by a laser in the MALDI form of this technique.
ANSWER: mass spectometry

14.Name the following Scandinavian authors, for 10 points each:
[10] This Swedish playwright wrote a work in which the cook Christine refuses to lose her fiancé to their mistress. The title character, Miss Julie, ends that work by this author with Jean the valet’s razor in her hand.
ANSWER: Johan August Strindberg
[10] This Dane wrote children’s stories such as The Little Match Girl, The Ugly Ducking, and The Little Mermaid.
ANSWER: Hans Christian Andersen
[10] This Icelandic author wrote of the cuckolded Bjartur raising his adopted daughter Asta and several of his own children on a small farm in Independent People and of Jon Hreggvidsson in Iceland’s Bell.
ANSWER: Halldor Laxness [or Halldor Kiljan Gudjonsson]

15.Name some psychologists with stages of development, for 10 points each.
[10] This Swiss psychologist developed a four-stage model where children understand the idea of object permanence at the end of the sensorimotor stage.
ANSWER: Jean Piaget
[10] This psychologist created six stages of moral development at three levels: pre-conventional, conventional, and post-conventional.
ANSWER: Lawrence Kohlberg
[10] This psychologist’s eight stages see the person confront and master new challenges and builds on the successful completion of earlier stages. This man also coined the term identity crisis.
ANSWER: Erik Homburger Erikson

16.Name some American slave rebellions, for 10 points each:
[10] The 1831 revolt led by this slave led to the death of 56 white men and resulted in the passing of laws restricting the teaching of literacy to slaves in Virginia.
ANSWER: Nat Turner
[10] Joseph Story wrote the majority opinion regarding the case that followed a slave rebellion led by Joseph Cinque on this Spanish ship in 1839. The slaves of this ship were allowed to go free following that case.
ANSWER: La Amistad
[10] Two slaves squealed on this South Carolina freed slave in 1822 before he could enact his uprising, which was to begin on Bastille Day.
ANSWER: Denmark Vesey

17.The Bodhisattva Guan Yin gives this work’s main characters their mission. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel in which a monk travels with three companions, one of whom is Sun Wukong the Monkey King.
ANSWER: Journey to the West [or Xiyouji]
[10] Journey to the West was written during this country’s Ming dynasty. The Dream of the Red Chamber is another work written in this country.
ANSWER: China
[10] This long novel features the struggle of the 108 title characters against the Song government.
ANSWER: Water Margin [or Outlaws of the Marsh; or All Men are Brothers; or Shuihu Zhuan]

18.Kids whose mothers had insufficient quantities of this vitamin prior to conception are more likely to develop spina bifida. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this B vitamin which acts as a coenzyme to one carbon transfers during amino acid and nucleic acid synthesis.
ANSWER: folic acid [or vitamin B9; or folate; or folacin; or pteroylglutamic acid]
[10] High doses of this vitamin can alleviate some symptoms of Wiernicke-Korsakoff Syndrome, and a deficiency of this B vitamin causes Beriberi.
ANSWEY: thiamine [or vitamin B1]
[10] Deficiency of this other fat soluble vitamin leads to rickets, and it is converted to calcitrol in the kidneys. This vitamin can be acquired from sunlight and milk.
ANSWER: vitamin D

19.The man on the left side of this painting stands on a tree root and holds a rifle under his arm while a woman on a green bench sits next to him. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1750 painting depicting the title couple shortly after their wedding.
ANSWER: Mr. and Mrs. Andrews
[10] Mr. and Mrs. Andrews was painted by Thomas Gainsborough, who is also known for a painting of Jonathan Buttall dressed in this color. Picasso’s The Old Guitarist was painted in a period named for this color.
ANSWER: blue
[10] This other English painter is often considered the rival of Thomas Gainsborough. The first president of the Royal Academy, he may be best known for his portraits such as Mrs. Siddons as the Tragic Muse.
ANSWER: Joshua Reynolds

20.Coordination complexes are formed when multiple ones of these structures bind to the central metallic atoms, and the number of atoms in these structures bonded to the central atoms determines their denticity. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these Lewis basic ions or molecules.
ANSWER: ligands
[10] This term refers to compounds with polydentate ligands bonded to a central atom. Biological examples of these molecules include EDTA and porphyrin rings.
ANSWER: chelates [or chelating agents]
[10] One model used to explain coordination complexes is named for ‘fields’ of these highly repetitive structures. A state of matter made up of ‘liquid’ ones of these structures is highly used in modern electronic displays.
ANSWER: liquid crystals [prompt on LCDs]

21.This character first appeared in Marvel Comics #1, for 10 points each:
[10] Name this character created by Bill Everett who in his first appearance attacked some divers before it is revealed that he is the son of an Atlantean named Fen and a human named Leonard McKenzie. He then declared war against humans.
ANSWER: Namor the Sub-Mariner [or Sub-Mariner]
[10] Timely Comics, the precursor to Marvel, often pitted Namor against the original Human Torch, who took on this character as his sidekick. He was the son of a man who had contracted asbestos poisoning, making this character impervious to flame and heat.
ANSWER: Toro [or Thomas Raymond]
[10] Namor, the Human Torch, and Captain America were all created during the 1930s and 40s, which was given this name due to the immense popularity of comic books during that time. DC also created Batman, Superman, Wonder Woman, and the Green Lantern during this period.
ANSWER: The Golden Age of Comics
