ACF Fall 2011
Packet by Ohio State B (Max Bucher, Matt Gerberich, Jasper Lee, Kirun Sankaran)
Edited by Sarah Angelo, Bryan Berend, Matt Bollinger, Matt Hart, Gaurav Kandlikar, and Matt Menard

1.In this country, discontent with the regime of Augusto Bernardino Leguia gave Victor Haya de la Torre the support of the lower classes for his party APRA. A more recent president of this country ran for the party Cambio 90. This country’s current currency is the nuevo sol, which was introduced at one million times the value of its former currency. This country suffered frequent terrorist attacks by the Shining Path, which were combated by its president, Alberto Fujimori. For 10 point, name this Andean country whose capital is Lima.
ANSWER: Republic of Peru [or Republica del Peru]

2.In this work, one character enters the Garter Inn disguised as Mr. Brook after receiving a warning from Pistol and Nim. Two characters in this play accidentally carry off boys when another character wears a costume different than she had told them in order to marry her true love, Fenton, instead of Dr. Caius or Slender. A foolish knight in this play who thinks he can seduce the title characters finds himself thrown into a river with the laundry. That character is later ambushed by disguised children in a wood after the title characters’ husbands join in. For 10 points, name this Shakespearean comedy in which the title characters Mistress Ford and Mistress Page trick Falstaff.
ANSWER: The Merry Wives of Windsor

3.One theory that applies this effect at a molecular level can be tested by measuring the dN/dS (d-n over d-s) values of gene sequences. Sewall Wright demonstrated that the likelihood that an allele fixes itself in a population experiencing only this effect is equal to that allele’s initial frequency in the population. Kimura’s theory of neutral molecular evolution explains most variation as a result of this process. This mechanism is most effective in small populations, such as those created by of the founder effect. For 10 points, name this force of evolution that describes the random fluctuations in allelic frequencies.
ANSWER: genetic drift [accept neutral evolution or neutral theory before ‘neutral’ is read]

4.One leader of this event called it a “blood sacrifice” necessary to invigorate popular resistance. The leaders of this event read out a “Proclamation” from their headquarters at the General Post Office. This event was reduced in scope after a ship carrying smuggled German weapons was captured, despite the efforts of Roger Casement. Sir John Maxwell imposed martial law in response to this event, ordering the executions of its leaders, including James Connolly, Tom Clarke, and Patrick Pearse. For 10 points, name this 1916 event in which Irish nationalists seized key Dublin buildings during a certain holiday.
ANSWER: Easter Rising [or Easter Rebellion; or Eiri Amach na Casca]

5.In the eschatology of this religion, Saoshyant brings about the final renovation of the world. In its scripture, Yima repeatedly uses a seal and dagger to make the earth grow. After death, some of its practitioners are placed on a dakhma. The primary text of this religion includes the liturgical Yasna and a section on protecting against Daevas, the Vendidad. This religion’s holy book includes the Gathas and is written in a namesake language called Avestan. In this religion, the six Amesha Spentas oppose the evil Ahriman and are the divine sparks of Ahura Mazda. For 10 points, identify this dualistic Iranian religion whose adherents worship in fire temples.
ANSWER: Zoroastrianism

6.This artist’s equestrian sculpture of Louis XIV was so disliked by Louis that it was changed into another work. His collaborations include the “Fountain of the Old Boat” with his father Pietro and the Palazzo Barberini with his rival, Francesco Borromini. Cerberus sits below the title female as she struggles to escape in one of his works. Another work shows a Trojan hero carrying his father while his son trails behind. This sculptor of The Rape of Proserpina also depicted a nymph changing into a laurel tree in his Apollo and Daphne. For 10 points, name this Baroque Italian sculptor who depicted a spear-holding angel above the title woman in his The Ecstasy of Saint Teresa. 
ANSWER: Gian Lorenzo Bernini

7.A tube containing a gas of this element was used in an experiment that proved Niels Bohr’s energy quantization theory. In addition to being used in the Franck-Hertz experiment, this element is the cathode in the Castner-Kellnar process. An acetate of this element is bonded onto two carbon atoms in an intermediate step that is followed by the addition of sodium hydride in a reaction that converts alkenes to alcohols. This element usually forms a diatomic molecule when it has an oxidation number of +1, and this element is bonded to sulfur in cinnabar. For 10 points, name this metal that is the only one that is a liquid at room temperature, and which has chemical symbol Hg.
ANSWER: Mercury [or Hg until mentioned]

8.This character is described as having “a crucifixion in his face.” This man is told that before he dies he will see two hearses and that only hemp can kill him. This man who threw away his pipe because of its inability to soothe him hires the sinister Fedallah and his men to supplement his crew. After Stubbs leaves a little boy out in the sea, this character begins to look after the crazed Pip. During a fight about leaking oil casks, this man points a musket at his first-mate, Starbuck. This man offers a gold coin as a reward before making Daggoo, Tashtego, and Queequeg drink from their harpoon tips. For 10 points, name this peg-legged captain of the Pequod who tirelessly hunts Moby Dick.
ANSWER: Captain Ahab

9.Along with heavy use of machinery, this idea was blamed for the proletarians losing all individual character of their work in The Communist Manifesto. Karl Marx goes on to differentiate between “social” type of this concept and the destructive “technical” type. Adam Smith, in the first chapter of his Wealth of Nations, describes this concept with the example of a pin factory. One book describes the anomic and forced forms of this concept, and a high complexity of this is closely associated with an advanced society. For 10 points, name this concept examined by Emile Durkheim “in society.”
ANSWER: division of labor

10.One man associated with this group depicted the construction of an underground tunnel beneath a road in his painting Work. A man wearing a crown and holding a lantern knocks at a door with no handle in The Light of the World, which was painted by another member of this group. Elizabeth Siddal was painted as Ophelia by a member who also created the controversial Christ in the House of His Parents. With William Holman Hunt, that man helped found this group along with the painter of Beata Beatrix. John Everett Millais and Dante Gabriel Rossetti were founders of, for 10 points, what group of English painters who were influenced by art before the Renaissance?
ANSWER: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood

11.In one section, this works' author describes his inability to imagine the differences between a chiliagon and a myriagon to illustrate the difference between imagination and understanding. In its second section, the author notes that the properties of a piece of wax can change, suggesting that wax is known not by the senses but by the mind alone. The sixth of these distinguishes res extensis and res cogitans, The third part of this work proves that the external world exists because God is not a deceiver. For 10 points, name this work, whose author attempts to discard everything of which he is not certain and build a foundation for knowledge, the magnum opus of René Descartes.
ANSWER: Meditations on First Philosophy

12.In this work, a retired soldier’s daughter, Masha, is loved by the schoolteacher Medvedenko but consults the doctor Dorn for advice about her love for a writer. In this work, the aspiring actress Nina performs in a play-within-a-play written by the son of Arkadina. That man has traveled to the estate owned by Arkadina’s brother Sorin with Trigorin, a novelist who is loved by and later abandons Nina. Two years after a botched attempt, Treplyov eventually commits suicide after he is reunited with Nina, who is compared to the title animal. For 10 points, name this work in which Treplyov kills the title bird, a play by Anton Chekhov.
ANSWER: The Seagull [or Chayka]

13.One person involved in this event was advised by literary agent Lucianne Goldberg, who had been working on a book about the death of Vince Foster. Much of the evidence during this event was provided by telephone conversations recorded by Linda Tripp, who gave the tapes to reporter Kenneth Starr. The sitting president during this event claimed “It depends on what the meaning of the word is is” to defend his previous statements regarding a White House intern. For 10 points, name this event in which Bill Clinton was impeached for falsely claiming that he did not have sexual relations with a certain woman.
ANSWER: Monica Lewinsky affair [or equivalents]

14.This organ is home to the eccrine and apocrine glands, and the arrecter pili are vestigial muscles found in this organ. Meissner’s Corpuscules are found in the papillae that form between the boundary of two parts of this organ. Sebaceous glands are found in the bottom layer of this organ, and are often found in conjunction with hair follicles. Infection of this organ by bacteria of the genus Staphylococcus often leads to impetigo in young children. This organ contains melanocytes, which determine its color, and conditions that affect this organ include psoriasis. For 10 points, name this largest organ, which serves as the body’s first line of defense and whose top layer is the epidermis.
ANSWER: skin

15.The protagonist of this novel quarrels with his classmates when he insists that Byron and not Tennyson is the best English poet. Father Arnall defends this work’s narrator after he breaks his glasses at Clongowes and is unable to do his Latin work. In this novel, Dante, the protagonist’s aunt, openly supports Charles Parnell. The protagonist of this novel begins seeing prostitutes but returns to devout Catholicism when fiery sermons frighten him. However, the protagonist of this novel decides not to become a priest but to devote himself to beauty after he sees a girl wading in the sea. For 10 points, name this novel about the early life of Stephen Dedalus, a work by James Joyce.
ANSWER: A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man

16.One of this composer’s works ends with a diminuendo via the removal of notes from a dominant-seventh chord. The theme of the “Fast and Playful” movement of another work was reused in his first symphony. Such movements as “Arlequin” and “Pierrot” are found in another piece by this composer of Papillons and Kreisleriana. This co-founder of the New Journal of Music included the A-S-C-H motif in his Carnaval. Another work of his is named after the river in which he tried to drown himself. This husband of Clara Wieck constantly heard the note A near the end of his life. For 10 points, name this German composer of the Spring and Rhenish symphonies.
ANSWER: Robert Alexander Schumann

17.After this figure wins a duel at Griotunagardar, the volva Groa heals him until this figure tells her how he helped her husband across the Elivagar River. When this figure was carrying Aurvandil, he broke off a frozen toe and made it a star. This god got a whetstone lodged in his head when he and his servant Thialfi fought Hrungnir, after which only this god’s son by Jarnsaxa was able to lift Hrugnir’s foot. This figure goes fishing with Hymir for the monster this god duels at Ragnarok named Jormungandr. His chariot is pulled by a pair of goats. For 10 points, name this father of Magni and Modi, husband of golden-haired Sif, wielder of the hammer Mjolnir, and Norse god of thunder.
ANSWER: Thor

18.Clauss Jonson performed a version of this experiment using electrons in 1961. This experiment was evidence against the corpuscular theory of Isaac Newton. The key observation in this experiment is revealed in the intensity distribution of the certain patterns, which can be seen as distinct bands of color separated by dark regions, a phenomenon the experimenter called interference fringes. Interference also occurs in this set up when photons are shot one at a time. For 10 points, identify this 1801 experiment that showed the wave nature of light performed by Thomas Young.

ANSWER: Thomas Young’s double slit experiment [accept Thomas Young’s experiment before mentioned]

19.This kingdom’s culture flourished under its two foreign Angevin rulers, Charles I and Louis the Great. Forces called the kuruc resisted despotic Habsburg rule over this kingdom. In the sixteenth century, this kingdom’s territory was split between the rival kings John Zapolya and Ferdinand von Habsburg. This realm’s ruler, Louis II, drowned at the Battle of Mohacs, where its military was annihilated. One of this kingdom’s rulers received its “holy crown” from Sylvester II. This kingdom was Christianized under St. Stephen. For 10 points, name this medieval kingdom whose rulers lived at Buda.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Hungary

20.Places like Buccaneer Cove located at this place were named in honor of the buccaneer Ambrose Crowley, who drew the first navigation chart of this archipelago. It is believed that this archipelago was once connected by the Cocos Ridge. This archipelago is located at the confluence of five ocean currents, and at a triple junction of tectonic plates, although most of the islands of this archipelago lie on the Nazca Plate. For 10 points, identify this archipelago of volcanic islands west of Ecuador, famed for its vast number of endemic species and visits from Charles Darwin.
ANSWER: Galápagos Islands [or Islas Galapagos; or Archipielago de Colon]

21.It’s not Atlanta, but this city’s entertainment district is known as Five Points South. This city’s Red Mountain houses the world’s largest cast iron statue, depicting Vulcan at his forge. One important figure in this city’s Civil Rights movement was its commissioner of public safety, Bull Connor. George Wallace called out the state’s National Guard to prevent the integration of this city’s schools. Thomas Blanton and Bobby Frank Cherry were convicted in 2002 of the 1964 bombings of this city’s 16th Street Baptist Church. For 10 points, name this city from whose city jail Martin Luther King wrote a famous letter, and which is the largest city in Alabama.
ANSWER: Birmingham

Bonuses:

1.This series lies between the Paschen and Lyman series. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this set of four spectral line emissions of hydrogen atoms that are in the visible spectrum.
ANSWER: Balmer series [or Balmer lines]
[10] The equation used to calculate the Balmer Series uses a constant named for this Swedish physicist, whose namesake equation is used to calculate the wavelengths of emission spectra of other elements.
ANSWER: Johannes Rydberg
[10] Rydberg’s empirical observations were justified with a theoretical explanation by this Danish physicist, who is best known for his model of the atom, in which electrons were theorized to “orbit” the nucleus.
ANSWER: Niels Bohr

2.For 10 points each, name the following people who painted Pietàs.
[10] A depiction of the Pietà was once attached to the bottom of this man’s Colonna Altarpiece. This Renaissance artist is better known for decorating the Stanza della segnatura, which contains his Disputa and School of Athens. 
ANSWER: Raphael [or Raffaello Sanzio; or Raffaello Santi]
[10] This man’s Pietà was painted in the 1560s around the same time of his Byzantine-influenced Dormition of the Virgin. Later works by him, such as The Disrobing of Christ and View of Toledo, show the influence of Mannerism.
ANSWER: El Greco [or Domenikos Theotokopoulos]
[10] An alternate title of this German Surrealist’s Pietà is Revolution by Night. His bird-related works include those featuring the creature Loplop and his 1924 painting Two Children are Threatened by a Nightingale.
ANSWER: Max Ernst

3.These groups of raiders attacked many cities around the Mediterranean during the twelfth century BCE, but their origins are unknown. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these groups that were given their name by the Egyptians when they attacked alongside Libyans during the reign of the pharaoh Merneptah.
ANSWER: Sea Peoples
[10] The Tjeker tribe of Sea People may be linked to this ancient city, which was excavated by Heinrich Schliemann and Frank Calvert.
ANSWER: Troy [or Ilium]
[10] Another hypothesis concerning the Sea Peoples links them with this people, who ruled Gaza and Ascalon. In the Old Testament, they fought the kingdom of Israel and their warriors included Goliath.
ANSWER: Philistines

4.He wrote a collection of essays about Anglophone philosophy in the first half of the twentieth century called The Linguistic Turn. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this American philosopher and literary theorist most famous for Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature.
ANSWER: Richard McKay Rorty
[10] Michael Dummett identified the work The Foundations of Arithmetic by this philosopher and mathematician as the beginning of the linguistic turn. This man also wrote the paper “On Sense and Reference” and invented contemporary formal logic.
ANSWER: Gottlob Frege
[10] This other mathematician and philosopher wrote On the Concept of Number, but he is more famous as the founder of phenomenology.
ANSWER: Edmund Husserl

5.The severe stutterer Billy Bibbit is one of the patients described by Chief Bromden in this novel. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this book set in a mental hospital in which Randle P. McMurphy rebels against the cruel Nurse Ratched, helping more of his fellow patients in the process than the hospital had.
ANSWER: One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest
[10] This author wrote One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest after becoming disillusioned with the state of psychiatry while working in a mental ward. He also wrote about an Oregon logging family in Sometimes a Great Notion.
ANSWER: Ken Elton Kesey
[10] Tom Wolfe presented an account of Kesey and his Merry Pranksters in this work of New Journalism that detailed much of their psychedelic drug use while on a cross-country road trip in a school bus.
ANSWER: The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test

6.Rulers from this house include John the Good and Charles the Wise. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this French house that succeeded the Capetian dynasty as rulers of France.
ANSWER: House of Valois
[10] This Valois king defeated Charles the Bold of Burgundy and signed the Merchant’s Peace of Picquigny with Edward IV of England. His cunning led to him being called the “Spider King.”
ANSWER: Louis XI of France
[10] After the death of the last Capetian king, Edward III of England made a bid for the French throne. That helped lead to this extremely lengthy war between France and England in the fourteenth century.
ANSWER: Hundred Years’ War

7.She dismembered her brother Apsyrtus and scattered the pieces to escape the pursuit of her father. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this sorceress who gave her lover some herbs to help him defeat a sleepless dragon.
ANSWER: Medea
[10] In addition to slaying the sleepless dragon, this hero also had to sow a field with the teeth of a dragon after plowing it with some fire-breathing oxen. With the help of Medea, he was able to recover the Golden Fleece.
ANSWER: Jason
[10] This brother of Circe was the father of Medea and the king of Colchis who demanded that Jason slay the dragon and plow the field.
ANSWER: Aeetes

8.This man wrote about a Soweto criminal who kidnaps a baby in his only novel, Tsotsi. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this South African author who also described Hally’s growing cruelty towards his black servants Sam and Willie as his father’s return from the hospital grows closer in “Master Harold”…and the Boys.
ANSWER: Athol Harold Lannigan Fugard
[10] In this play by Athol Fugard, the light-skinned Morris agrees to pass himself off as white for an upcoming visit by his dark-skinned brother Zachariah’s white pen-pal, but her visit is cancelled and the brothers fight.
ANSWER: The Blood Knot
[10] In “Master Harold”…and the Boys, Hally fondly remembers one of these objects Sam had made for him so that he’d have something to look up to. A novel by Khaled Hosseini includes a contest to sever the strings of these.
ANSWER: kites

9.The Constitutional Convention of 1787 met in order to revise this document. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this document, the first United States constitution, which failed to provide enough powers to the central government to maintain order.
ANSWER: Articles of Confederation
[10] The federal government’s inability to deal with this Massachusetts rebellion helped motivate the reform of the articles. It was a response to the state government’s harsh treatment of debtors.
ANSWER: Shays’s Rebellion
[10] This man attacked the institution of the slave trade at the Constitutional Convention. He also drafted Virginia’s state constitution.
ANSWER: George Mason

10.Members of this musical movement include the composer of In C and Rainbow in Curved Air, Terry Riley. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this movement begun in the 1960s that focuses on the repetition of phrases and motifs.
ANSWER: Minimalism [accept word forms]
[10] One of the best known Minimalist composers is this man, who composed the score to the film Koyaanisqatsi and composed the “Plutonian Ode” Symphony. He also wrote the long opera Einstein on the Beach. 
ANSWER: Philip Glass
[10] This other minimalist composer is known for playing two tapes of the same sound at different tempos, a technique known as “phasing.” His major works include Come Out and Different Trains.
ANSWER: Steve Reich [or Stephen Michael Reich]

11.Some members of this phylum have still projections called setae to help them move, and the clitellum of certain members of this phylum play a role in their reproduction. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this phylum of segmented worms that includes leeches and earthworms.
ANSWER: Annelida [or Annelids]
[10] Organisms in this other phylum of flatworms lack a central body cavity. Members of this phylum include tapeworms and planarians.
ANSWER: Platyhelminthes
[10] This other invertebrate phylum contains gastropods such as snails and cephalopods such as octopuses. These organisms have a single muscular foot, and the mantles of some of these creatures make shells.
ANSWER: mollusks [or Mollusca]

12.Name some emperors of the Western Roman Empire, for 10 points each.
[10] This emperor divided the Western and Eastern parts of the Roman Empire and established the Tetrarchy. He organized the Roman provinces into twelve dioceses, each under the administration of a vicarius.
ANSWER: Gaius Aurelius Valerius Diocletianus Augustus
[10] This emperor is best known for being the first Christian emperor. He issued the Edict of Milan after defeating his rival, Maxentius, in the Battle of the Milvian Bridge.
ANSWER: Constantine I [or Constantine the Great; or Flavius Valerius Constantinus; prompt on Constantine]
[10] This last emperor of the Western empire abdicated after Odoacer’s capture of Ravenna. He was effectively a figurehead for his father, the general Orestes, who had deposed Julius Nepos.
ANSWER: Flavius Momyllus Romulus Augustulus [or Romulus Augustus]

13.In one of this man’s plays, Gorgias and Sostratus rescue the title character from a well. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author of Greek New Comedy, who wrote of the misanthropic Knemon in his only completely extant play, Dyskolos.
ANSWER: Menander
[10] All six of this Roman playwright’s known plays are extant. This freedman’s works are adapted from Greek models, and they include The Mother-in-Law and The Eunuch.
ANSWER: Terence [or Publius Terentius Afer]
[10] This other Roman playwright wrote the inspiration for The Comedy of Errors in his Menaechmi, as well as writing a play in which a clever slave tricks the title braggart soldier, Miles Gloriosus.
ANSWER: Titus Maccius Plautus

14.This is the largest freshwater lake in the world. For 10 points each:
[10] Name the largest of the Great Lakes, which is surrounded by Ontario, Minnesota, Wisconsin, and Michigan. Cities on it include Duluth.
ANSWER: Lake Superior
[10] This national park lies on its namesake island, the largest in Lake Superior. Owned by Michigan, it is notable for its wolf and moose populations.
ANSWER: Isle Royale National Park
[10] This chain of 22 islands, owned by Wisconsin, is located near the western end of Lake Superior. Aside from the largest, Madeline Island, all of them are part of a namesake National Lakeshore.
ANSWER: Apostle Islands

15.Jane Jacobs wrote a treatise on The Death and Life of Great American ones, which discusses urban planning. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these areas, examples of which include Chicago, Phoenix, and Seattle.
ANSWER: cities [or city]
[10] Urban planning involves this type of land use regulation that in cities separates uses that are incompatible and may also regulate design characteristics such as building height.
ANSWER: zoning
[10] The concentric zone model attempts to explain urban social structures by using a series of in this pattern, with the central business district in the middle. It is effectively an urban version of the von Thünen model.
ANSWER: rings

16.The last act of this opera sees a group of women and men call out to a ship with no answer, and its second act opens in Daland’s home with women at their wheels singing the “Spinning Chorus.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this opera which ends with Senta casting herself into the sea, allowing the title sailor and his crew to ascend into heaven. That sailor had been under a curse to roam the seas after invoking Satan.
ANSWER: The Flying Dutchman [or Der fliegende Holländer]
[10] The Flying Dutchman is an opera by this German composer who included the “Ride of the Valkeries” in the second opera in his Ring of the Nibelung cycle. 
ANSWER: Richard Wagner
[10] The burning of Vahalla and the return of The Ring to the Rhinemaidens ends this other opera by Wagner. Brünnhilde dies as well by riding her horse into a pyre.
ANSWER: Götterdämmerung [or Twilight of the Gods]

17.The speaker of this poem insists “’twere profanation of our joys to tell the laity our love.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poem in which the speaker compares himself and his lover to the arms of a compass to assure her that “thy firmness makes my circle just and makes me end where I begin.”
ANSWER: “A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning”
[10] In this poem by the author of “A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning,” the speaker says that the title creature “enjoys before it woo” and uses the blood it has sucked to show his lover “how little that which thou deniest me is.”
ANSWER: “The Flea”
[10] This poet of “The Flea” and “A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning” also wrote “death, be not proud” in his “Holy Sonnet X.”
ANSWER: John Donne

18.His namesake algorithm finds the greatest common divisor of two numbers, and he also wrote a proof showing that there are infinitely many prime numbers. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this ancient Greek geometer and author of the Elements.
ANSWER: Euclid
[10] The Euclidean algorithm is one of these algorithms, which are used to implement dynamic programming and divide-and-conquer algorithms. This word also refers to functions that are defined in terms of themselves, like factorial.
ANSWER: recursive [or recursion]
[10] The value of this quantity for a given network can be found by algorithms such as the one named for Ford and Fulkerson, which is based on the fact that this quantity is equal to the min cut.
ANSWER: max flow

19.One of the oldest and most important of these claims, “Everything is loved not for its own sake, but because the Self lives in it.” For 10 points each:
[10] The Brihadaranyaka is part of this voluminous collection of Hindu commentaries whose name means “sitting nearby.”
ANSWER: Upanishads
[10] One concept that originated in the Upanishads is this Sanskrit word, meaning the reality that is perceived, rather than the ultimate reality. It can be translated as “fraud,” “not that,” or “illusion.”
ANSWER: Maya
[10] Each of the Upanishads is associated with one of the four of these oldest sacred Hindu texts, the best known of which is the collection of hymns known as the Rig one.
ANSWER: Vedas

20.Name the following quantities related to friction, for 10 points each.
[10] Unlike friction, this quantity from fluid dynamics is proportional to the square of the speed of the object through the medium. Examples of this phenomenon include air resistance and fluid resistance.
ANSWER: drag
[10] Friction is not proportional to velocity, but it is proportional to this quantity that is directed perpendicular to the contact surface between two objects.
ANSWER: Normal force
[10] This man's namesake paradox concludes that, under certain conditions, the drag on a body with constant velocity relative to the fluid is zero.
ANSWER: d'Alembert's Paradox

21.Name some things about men with magnificent facial hair, for 10 points each.
[10] This Texas band is best known for songs like “Sharp-Dressed Man,” “La Grange,” “Gimme All Your Lovin,” and “Legs.”
ANSWER: ZZ Top
[10] Though both guitarist Billy Gibbons and bassist Dusty Hill sport magnificent chest-length beards, this ironically-named drummer wears only a mustache.
ANSWER: Frank Beard
[10] This ZZ Top song, off the Tres Hombres album, notes that the title character is “bound for New Orleans” after departing the title locale, and that “you might not see him in person, but he’ll see you just the same.”
ANSWER: “Jesus Just Left Chicago”
