ACF Fall 2011
Packet by Rancho Bernardo High School (David Hu, Helen Fang, Dayoung Lee, Vivek Rangaswamy, Ben Cohen)
Edited by Sarah Angelo, Bryan Berend, Matt Bollinger, Matt Hart, Gaurav Kandlikar, and Matt Menard

1.In one battle from this war, the Duc de Noailles attempted to block a British retreat to Hanau by stationing the Duc de Gramont in a namesake village along the Main River. That battle in this war was the last time a British sovereign led troops into battle. This war saw the Battle of Dettingen as well as the Battle of Mollwitz, in which Prussia gained control of Silesia. This conflict began when Frederick the Great challenged the validity of the Pragmatic Sanction and concluded with the treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle. For 10 points, name this conflict ostensibly fought over Maria Theresa’s right to ascend to the throne of a certain empire.
ANSWER: War of the Austrian Succesion [or King George’s War]

2.The title character of this work kills Don Issachar and the Grand Inquisitor to rescue his lover. One woman in this work who claims to be the pope’s daughter loses a buttock to Russian officers. After he is conscripted into the Bulgar army, the title character of this work runs the gauntlet thirty six times. That title character begins this work living with the Baron of Thunder-ten-tronckh and his daughter Cunegonde in Westphalia, where he is tutored in “metaphysico-theologo-cosmolo-nigology” by Dr. Pangloss. For 10 points, name this satirical work by Voltaire.
ANSWER: Candide, or Optimism

3. A formal averaging procedure can be used on these to obtain Darcy’s Law. By using these equations and applying Newton’s first law to a case with zero acceleration, the Hagen-Poiseuille equation can be derived. When heat conductivity and another quantity are zero, these equations simplify to the Euler equations. One of the Millennium Prize Problems is the namesake existence and smoothness of solutions to these equations. This set of equations is useful only at low Knudsen numbers, and solutions are easier to find when the Reynolds number is small. For 10 points, name this set of nonlinear partial differential equations that describe the motion of fluids.
ANSWER: Navier-Stokes equations

4.One side in this battle launched Operation Greif, a plan for Otto Skorzeny to lead English-speaking German soldiers in infiltrating the American army. During this battle, Joachim Peiper’s ‘Blowtorch Brigade’ executed 113 prisoners-of-war in the Malmedy Massacre. German forces captured the city of Bastogne during this battle, prompting Anthony McAuliffe to cry “Nuts!” The German plan for this battle did not succeed, as the Ardennes offensive failed to drive the advancing allies back to the Meuse River. For 10 points, name this 1944 battle from World War II, which was named for the wedge German armies drove into American lines.
ANSWER: Battle of the Bulge

5.This character listens to a blind priest’s views on the Destroyer. While dying, this character says that he has “had an accident… So may you all.” This character hates his human neighbors for their wasteful violence but is nonetheless captivated by the stories of their harpist called the Shaper. This character argues with a dragon who advises hoarding gold and pities Unferth, who has committed fratricide like this character’s ancestor, Cain. This character thinks the “ultimate act of nihilism” would be to kill Wealtheow while attacking Hrothgar’s hall. For 10 points, name this creature who titles a John Gardner novel and is killed when his arm is ripped off by Beowulf.
ANSWER: Grendel

6.A reduced form of this monomeric molecule is converted to ascorbic acid in the Reichstein Process. When in its ring form, this substance has a hemiacetyl group at its anomeric carbon. The absence of this molecule triggers the use of “ketone bodies” for energy in some organs. This molecule can cross the blood brain barrier, and its interaction with CAP regulates the lac operon. Hexokinase cleaves this molecule in a certain metabolic process, and this carbohydrate is stored in the liver as glycogen. For 10 points, name this simple sugar that is the main product of photosynthesis and has chemical formula C6H12O6.
ANSWER: d-glucose [or dextrose; or l-glucose; accept C6H6 before mentioned]

7.One holder of this office claimed that he had extended his vitality by drinking a cup of his own urine every morning. Another holder of this post had her son forcibly sterilize political opponents in the Family Planning initiative during a period called “The Emergency.” That holder of this post was killed by her own soldiers after ordering Operation Bluestar. The first holder of this post took over from Viceroy Mountbatten and was known as “Pandit.” This post has been held by Morarji Desai, Indira Gandhi, and Jawaharlal Nehru. For 10 points, name this post, the chief of government of an Asian country.
ANSWER: Prime Minister of India [or PM of India]

8.In one poem by this author, “the blood in the streets” answers “why doesn’t his poetry speak of dreams and leaves and the green volcanoes of his native land?” This poet of that work about the Spanish Civil War, “I Explain a Few Things,” also wrote “sometimes she loved me too” in a poem that declares “the night is shattered and she is not with me.” This author of “Tonight I Can Write the Saddest Lines” included “The Heights of Macchu Picchu” in his epic poem Canto General. For 10 points, name this Chilean poet of Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair.
ANSWER: Pablo Neruda [or Neftali Ricardo Reyes Basoalto]

9.The alpha type of this mineral crystallizes trigonally and the beta type crystallizes hexagonally. Cristobalite has the same chemical formula but different crystal structure than this mineral. One type of this mineral created in high pressures is abundant near the K-T boundary. This mineral is found under muscovite on the Bowen’s Reaction Series, and, like Topaz, this mineral is piezoelectric. Forms of this mineral include amethyst, and trace amounts of titanium create the rose type of this mineral. For 10 points, name this mineral that scores a 7 on the Mohs hardness scale, and which is composed of silicon dioxide.
ANSWER: quartz

10.When one of the title characters of this comic is asked “What was the significance of the Erie Canal?,” he answers “In the cosmic sense, probably nil.” To get out of an assignment, that character from this comic imagines that he is captured by the Zorgs of Planet X-13, whose queen is his teacher Mrs. Wormwood, and that he is Spaceman Spiff. Together, the two title characters of this comic strip use a “transmogrifter,” a cardboard box, to change themselves into different animals. For 10 points, name this comic strip that follows a little boy and his adventures with a tiger that is viewed by all others as an inanimate stuffed toy.
ANSWER: Calvin and Hobbes

11.This man traveled to Baffin Island to investigate the impact of the physical environment on native Inuit migrations. His studies of the Kwakiutl Indians led him to conclude that human activity and thought must be understood in terms of the culture that originated them. This anthropologist claimed cultures are too complex to be studied from a singular perspective and developed his four-field approach. For 10 points, identify this American author of The Mind of Primitive Man who established the department of anthropology at Columbia University, and whose students included Ruth Benedict, Zora Neale Hurston, and Margaret Mead.
ANSWER: Franz Boas

12.The Metabolism architecture movement was founded in this country, whose first Pritzker Prize winner incorporated hyperbolic parabolas into his design of St. Mary’s Cathedral in its capital. An airport located here is modeled after an airplane and is built on an artificial island. A museum built here saw its architect dig into a nearby mountain. In addition to an airport designed by Renzo Piano and I.M. Pei’s Miho Museum, this country has a building that, due to several innovative features, survived a large 1923 earthquake. That building is Frank Lloyd Wright’s Imperial Hotel. For 10 points, name this country where many Kenzo Tange-designed buildings can be found in Toyko.
ANSWER: Japan [or Nihon; or Nippon]

13.A debate between this religion's founder and Archelaus is Hegemonius’s only surviving work, which is called Acta Archelai. The Red Turban sect was started by members of the White Lotus and this religion. Bahram II killed the apostle Sisin of this religion. Diocletian burnt its followers alive along with their sacred books. Its founder wrote the Shabuhragan, a work dedicated to Shapur, and believed that there was originally a World of Light and a World of Darkness. For 10 points, name this religion that St. Augustine followed for nine years before converting to Christianity, a religion named for a third century Iranian prophet.
ANSWER: Manichaeism

14.A functional group containing this element is oxidized and eliminated to form an alkene in the Cope Elimination. Aryl halides are synthesized from aromatic rings bonded to a functional group made up of two atoms of this element in the Sandmeyer reaction. Compounds containing this element are synthesized in the Gabriel synthesis. Substituting one carbon in a benzene ring with this element give pyridine, and two atoms of this element are bonded to a carbonyl carbon in urea. This element is also present in amides and azides. For 10 points, name this element with chemical symbol N.
ANSWER: nitrogen [accept N until mentioned]

15.In this novel, the only survivor of a fire that destroys a house designed by a French architect is Jim Bond. Henry unknowingly meets his half-brother, the son of Eulalia, while attending college in this work. Wash Jones murders the husband of Ellen Coldfield in this novel, in which Charles Bon becomes engaged to Judith before the revelation of both his relation to her and his black ancestry. This novel is narrated to Shreve, the Canadian Harvard roommate of Quentin Compson. For 10 points, name this novel by William Faulkner about Thomas Sutpen.
ANSWER: Absalom, Absalom

16.This politician was nicknamed “spotty” for his “spot” resolution against the Mexican-American War. His Cooper Union speech helped this politician win the Republican nomination over William Seward. This man claimed “the policy of prohibiting slavery in new territory” originated with “the author of the declaration of Independence” in his Peoria Speech against the Kansas-Nebraska Act. This politician debated a man who advocated the Freeport Doctrine, and lost to that man, Stephen Douglas, in a Senate race. For 10 points, name this man who signed the Emancipation Proclamation and was President during the Civil War.
ANSWER: Abraham Lincoln

17.This figure was worshiped with the epithet Naios at a sanctuary called Dodona, where his consort was simply a feminine form of this deity named Dione. One of his offspring tried to rape Leto and was stretched out in Tartarus. In addition to fathering Tityos, this god also sired the man that killed the only mortal horse of Achilles before being slain by Patroclus. Hermes recovered this god’s sinews after Typhon tore them out. Mount Ida on Crete was sacred to this god, who was raised there by the goat Amalthea after his mother Rhea hid him. For 10 points, name this father of Sarpedon and Heracles who was the Greek god of thunder.
ANSWER: Zeus

18.A glass of water is placed on top of one of these objects in Rene Magritte’s painting Hegel’s Holiday. Francis Bacon depicted one behind a headless-man in his 1946 work Painting. A Renoir painting named for them depicts a woman with a basket in front of a crowd holding these objects, one of which partially obscures a lamppost in a Gustave Caillebotte (KYE-“boat”) painting of a Paris street. A woman with a small child and a woman holding a monkey on a leash both hold one of these objects in an 1884 work by George Seurat. For 10 points, name these items which many people hold in A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte even though it isn’t raining.
ANSWER: umbrellas

19.Essays like “Shadowgraphs: A Psychological Pastime” and “The Unhappiest One” are read to Symparanekromenoi in a section of a work by this author, who wrote of the wooing of Cordelia in that work's section “The Seducer’s Diary.” This man sees the religious follow the aesthetic and ethical stages in his Stages Along Life's Way. In an earlier work, this man distinguished between the knight of infinite resignation and the knight of faith, and examined the biblical story of Abraham and Isaac. For 10 points, name this author who used pseudonyms like Victor Eremita and Johannes Climacus and wrote Either/Or and Fear and Trembling.
ANSWER: Soren Aabye Kierkegaard

20.One piano collection by this non-Franz Liszt composer begins with a work subtitled “For five fingers, after Mr. Czerny.” Many of his compositions implement a 21-note scale he designed. Muzio Clementi’s influence can be seen in his “Doctor Gradus ad Parnassum” and a  theme by Wagner is quoted in “Golliwogg’s Cakewalk,” both of which are part of this man’s suite for his daughter “Chou-Chou” called the Children’s Corner. This composer of a set of twelve Etudes included the movement “Play of the Waves” in one work, and another translates as “moonlight” and is found in his Suite Bergamesque. For 10 points, name this French composer of La Mer and “Clair de Lune.”
ANSWER: Achille Claude Debussy

21.The Blue Angels perform annually at the MCAS Miramar air show in this city. Other attractions include its Wild Animal Park as well as the Birch aquarium. A one billion dollar expansion of Lindbergh Field is underway in this city, and an annual Giant Used Car Tent Sale is located at Qualcomm Stadium. Santa Ana winds caused major fires here in 2003 and 2007. This major city recently suffered a blackout when an APS worker in Arizona performed maintenance work. Located across the Mexican border from Tijuana is, for 10 points, what second largest city in California that is home to the Padres and the Chargers?
ANSWER: San Diego

Bonuses:

1.This element is bound to an oxygen atom and two methyl groups in a polar aprotic solvent that is often used for SN2 reactions. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this element that, in organic compounds, is represented by the suffix “thio.” This elements dioxide is produced industrially by the contact process, and is responsible for acid rain.
ANSWER: sulfur
[10] Sulfur features prominently in cystine and this other non-polar essential amino acid, which is coded for by the start codon AUG.
ANSWER: Methionine [or Met; or M]
[10] This process, named for a German scientist, is used to extract sulfur from its underground deposits. It involves melting the deposits and then treating them with compressed air to force the molten sulfur to rise to the top.
ANSWER: Frasch process

2.This annual event involves rituals like the stoning of the devil, circling the Kaaba, and kissing the Black Stone. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this pillar of Islam that involves a pilgrimage to Mecca and is required of each capable Muslim once in their lives.
ANSWER: Hajj
[10] During the Hajj, pilgrims circle the Kaaba, a black stone building built by this Islamic patriarch for his wife Hagar and their son Ishmael. His willingness to sacrifice his son Ishmael is commemorated on Eid al-Adha.
ANSWER: Ibrahim [or Abraham]
[10] The Hajj also includes drinking from this water source that was miraculously revealed to Hagar by the angel Gabriel when he scraped his wing against the ground.
ANSWER: Well of Zamzam

3.In this poem, “the ploughman homeward plods his weary way.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poem by Thomas Gray that notes, “The paths of glory lead but to the grave.”
ANSWER: “Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard”
[10] The title of this Thomas Hardy novel comes from “Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard.” In this novel, three men court Bathsheba Everdene, who marries Gabriel Oak.
ANSWER: Far From the Madding Crowd
[10] In “Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard,” the speaker suggests that one of the dead may have been a “mute inglorious” version of this author of Samson Agonistes and the pastoral elegy “Lycidas.”
ANSWER: John Milton

4.Answer the following about some of the fundamental forces, for 10 points each.
[10] This short range fundamental force, which is mediated by gluons, is responsible for overcoming electrostatic repulsion of protons and neutrons to bind them in an atom's nucleus. 
ANSWER: strong nuclear force
[10] This Japanese physicist's namesake interaction can be used to describe the strong nuclear force, and he also has a namesake potential that approximates it.
ANSWER: Hideki Yukawa
[10] While the strong nuclear force is mediated by gluons, the weak nuclear force, which was unified with the electromagnetic force in 1968, is mediated by bosons denoted by these two letters.
ANSWER: W and Z

5.This book states, “From each according to his ability, to each according to his need.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this work describing the execution of a socialist revolution, which is based on a letter its author wrote to the Eisenach faction.
ANSWER: Critique of the Gotha Program
[10] This man wrote the Critique of the Gotha Program, but is more famous for Das Kapital as well as for a collaboration with Engels.
ANSWER: Karl Heinrich Marx
[10] In Critique of the Gotha Program, Marx claimed that a classless worker’s state could only be achieved through this intermediate phase. Lenin discusses this concept in his The State and Revolution, where the title group deposes the capitalist state to achieve socialism.
ANSWER: dictatorship of the proletariat [prompt on equivalents]

6.In this story, Richards’ deathbed confession completes the revenge of the title character. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this short story in which a man reveals that the famed outstanding moral fiber of the residents of the title town cannot withstand temptation by offering a bag of gold that none of them can truly claim.
ANSWER: “The Man That Corrupted Hadleyburg”
[10] This author of “The Man That Corrupted Hadleyburg” and a number of other short stories is also known for his novels, such as one in which Becky Thatcher and Tom Sawyer become lost in a cave.
ANSWER: Mark Twain [or Samuel Langhorne Clemens]
[10] In this Twain short story, Simon Wheeler relates the exploits of the gambler Jim Smiley, whose bulldog Andrew Jackson lost a fight to a dog with no hind legs and who lost a bet when the title creature was fed buckshot.
ANSWER: “The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County”

7.The winner of this battle put his forces under the command of the Earl of Oxford and benefited from Thomas Stanley changing sides.  For 10 points each:
[10] Name this victory for Henry Tudor over Richard III.
ANSWER: Battle of Bosworth Field
[10] Bosworth Field was the decisive battle in this series of wars between the House of York and the House of Lancaster. It is named for their insignias.
ANSWER: Wars of the Roses 
[10] This man, nicknamed the “Kingmaker,” played a key role in the Wars of the Roses. He supported Henry VI, then Edward IV, and then Henry VI again before he was killed at the Battle of Barnet.
ANSWER: Richard Neville [or Earl of Warwick]

8.Tributaries to this river include Opequan and Conococheague, and it flows through Harper’s Ferry, Arlington, and Washington, D.C. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this river that drains into the Chesapeake Bay.
ANSWER: Potomac River
[10] This valley’s namesake river is the largest tributary to the Potomac and this valley is bound by the Blue Ridge Mountains and the Ridge-and-Valley Appalachians. It is known for limestone caves that include Luray Caverns and Grand Caverns
ANSWER: Shenandoah Valley
[10] This river south of the Potomac also drains into the Chesapeake. Tributaries include the Appomattox River and the Virginia Company’s first settlement was along this river
ANSWER: James River

9.Falling on a grenade is an example of this type of suicide, and Vervet monkeys that give alarm calls to warn of the presence of predators is a form of this characteristic in animals. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this characteristic, the opposite of selfishness, in which agents account for benefits to people other than themselves.
ANSWER: altruism
[10] This French philosopher posited the Law of Three Stages, where a society develops through theological, metaphysical, and scientific phases, and he also coined the term altruism.
ANSWER: Isidore Auguste Marie François Xavier Comte
[10] The motto “Ordem e Progresso” on the Brazilian flag was inspired by Comte’s motto of this doctrine, which holds that the scientific method is the best approach to uncovering the processes by which both physical and human events occur.
ANSWER: positivism

10.The first two books of this work provide advice on seducing women. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poem in three books, the last of which is intended for women, that advises men to brush off dust from a woman’s gown at the Circus Maximus whether or not there is any dust.
ANSWER: Ars Amatoria [or The Art of Love]
[10] This Roman poet who collected fifteen books of myths into the Metamorphoses wrote the Ars Amatoria.
ANSWER: Publius Ovidius Naso
[10] This poem about the Roman calendar was unfinished when Ovid was exiled to Tomis and discusses Roman holidays from January to June.
ANSWER: Fasti

11.Answer these questions about ancient Egypt, for 10 points each.
[10] This pharaoh carved the temples of Abu Simbel out of the mountainside and fought the Hittites at the Battle of Kadesh. He is thought to have been the pharaoh from Exodus.
ANSWER: Ramses II [or Ramses the Great; or Ramesses II; or Ramesses the Great; prompt on Ramses; prompt on Ramesses]
[10] This Eighteenth dynasty pharaoh adopted a monotheistic religion centered on the sun god. However, after his death, Egypt returned to polytheism.
ANSWER: Akhenaten [or Amenhotep IV; or Ikhnaton; prompt on Amenhotep]
[10] Another Eighteenth dynasty Pharaoh, Thutmose III, won this great battle. Thutmose led his troops through a dangerously narrow pass and routed the Canaanites, whose forces were guarding the safer routes.
ANSWER: Battle of Megiddo

12.The premiere of this work coincided with the consecration of the Cathedral of Christ the Savior, and this piece begins with the hymn “God Preserve Thy People.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this piece written to commemorate the Battle of Borodino. Making use of both Russian and French national anthems, it may be best known for its use of bells and cannon fire.
ANSWER: 1812 Overture
[10] The 1812 Overture was composed by this man, who wrote symphonies subtitled Winter Daydreams and Pathétique. He also composed the music for such ballets as Swan Lake and The Nutcracker.
ANSWER: Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky [or Peter Illich Tchaikovsky]
[10] In 1869, Tchaikovsky began working on his Romeo and Juliet overture with the aid of this man. This other Russian composer wrote the “oriental fantasy” Islamey, which is known for its extreme difficulty.
ANSWER: Mily Balakirev

13.Imsety and Duamutef were two of the four sons of this figure who were associated with canopic jars. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this falcon-headed Egyptian deity who was the son of Isis and Osiris.
ANSWER: Horus [or Nekheny]
[10] Horus tricked this deity into eating some semen-covered lettuce. This deity was the god of the desert, storms, foreigners, darkness, and chaos.
ANSWER: Seth [or Setesh; or Sutekh; or Setekh; or Suty]
[10] This wife of Set was the mother of Anubis and sister of Isis and is usually represented as a young woman with a headdress in the shape of a house and a basket.
ANSWER: Nepthys [or Nebet-Het; or Nebt-Het]

14.This man ran as the vice-presidential candidate for James Cox in 1920. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this politician who, in his four terms, served as president for most of the Great Depression.
ANSWER: Franklin Delano Roosevelt [or FDR; prompt on Roosevelt]
[10] Roosevelt kicked off his first term by enacting a special session of Congress, during which he laid the foundations of the New Deal and which proverbially lasted this many days.
ANSWER: One Hundred Days
[10] FDR appointed the Texan Jesse Jones as head of this organization, originally created by Herbert Hoover. This organization provided loans to corporations in order to stimulate economic activity.
ANSWER: Reconstruction Finance Corporation [or RFC]

15.This man is depicted in Arshile Gorky’s Portrait of Master Bill. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Dutch artist who is best known for a series of paintings depicting women in fragmented forms. Six of these paintings were labeled as violent and sexist after their premiere.
ANSWER: Willem de Kooning [prompt on Kooning]
[10] Willem de Kooning is considered to be a member of this artistic movement based in America, particularly New York City. Other proponents of it included Mark Rothko, Franz Kline, and Robert Motherwell.
ANSWER: Abstract Expressionism
[10] Arguably the most famous American Abstract Expressionist is this man nicknamed “Jack the Dripper” for his signature “action painting” methods. His works include No.5, 1948 and Full Fathom Five.
ANSWER: Paul Jackson Pollock

16.This star is classified as the alpha star of its constellation despite being less bright than Rigel. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this red supergiant that is found at the right shoulder of its constellation, which also contains stars like Mintaka.
ANSWER: Betelgeuse
[10] Betelgeuse is a star in this constellation. Other stars in this constellation include Alnitak and Alnilam, which form its namesake “belt.”
ANSWER: Orion
[10] Orion is surrounded by an emission nebula named for this astronomer. This astronomer also names a red dwarf star which is the second closest to Earth. That start is located in the constellation Ophiucus.
ANSWER: Edward Emerson Barnard

17.In this novel, Fahmi is killed during a peaceful demonstration. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel about the domineering but adulterous Ahmad Abd al-Jawad and his family, which includes his devoted wife Amina and young son Kamal.
ANSWER: Palace Walk [or Between the Two Palaces; or Bayn al-Qasrayn]
[10] Palace Walk is the first novel of this author’s Cairo Trilogy, which also includes Palace of Desire and Sugar Street.
ANSWER: Naguib Mahfouz
[10] Another work written in the same language as Palace Walk is this collection told by Scheherazade to prevent her execution. It includes the stories of Aladdin and the voyages of Sinbad.
ANSWER: The Arabian Nights [or One Thousand and One Nights; or The Arabian Nights’ Entertainment; or Kitab alf laylat wa-laylah]

18.This work was exhibited in 1955 at The Family of Man exhibit, and its creator is also known for taking pictures of Japanese internment camps in the early 1940s. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this work that depicts Florence Thompson and her three children in Nipomo, California in 1936.
ANSWER: Migrant Mother
[10] Dorothea Lange, the photographer of Migrant Mother, was invited by this man to teach at the California School of Fine Arts. This prominent American photographer is best known for founding the group f/64 and for such pictures as Moonrise, Hernandez, New Mexico.
ANSWER: Ansel Easton Adams
[10] Many of Adam’s photographs, such as Monolith, were taken at this national park in California located on the western slopes of the Sierra Nevada. Many tourists visit its namesake valley.
ANSWER: Yosemite National Park

19.The plasma membrane of these cells contain cyclic gmp gated Na+ (“N-A-plus”) channels, which cause hyperpolarization in the presence of light. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these photoreceptor cells that, along with cones, are found on the retina.
ANSWER: rod cells [or rods]
[10] The outer segments of rod cells have large quantities of this molecule, which is activated in the presence of light. This molecule is also called ‘visual purple,’ and its mutation can lead to retinitis pigmentosa.
ANSWER: rhodopsin
[10] Rhodopsin activation depends on the concentration of Na+ and this other cation. This cation acts as a second messenger molecule, and it is stored in high concentrations in sarcoplasmic reticula in muscles.
ANSWER: Ca2+ (“C-A two plus”) [accept Calcium cation or even just calcium]

20.This king faced a revolt by Earl Godwin after ordering him to punish the residents of Dover for killing some Normans in a brawl. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this king of England, a son of Ethelred the Unready who died in 1066.
ANSWER: Saint Edward the Confessor [do not accept “Edward I”]
[10] Edward the Confessor was succeeded by this king, who defeated Harold Hardrada at the Battle of Stamford Bridge before being killed by an arrow through the eye in another battle.
ANSWER: Harold Godwinson
[10] Harold Godwinson died at this battle, in which William the Conqueror defeated the British army and established Norman control over England.
ANSWER: Battle of Hastings [or Battle of Senlac Hill]

21.In one song, this singer exclaims that he “came to dance, dance, dance, dance” ‘cause that’s his “plans, plans, plans, plans.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this artist who’s gonna “rock this club,” “go all night,” and “light it up like it’s dynamite.”
ANSWER: Jacob Taio Cruz
[10] This other Taio Cruz song tells of how “there’s no point trying to hide it” and admits a “problem with misbehavin’.”
ANSWER: “Break Your Heart”
[10] Taio Cruz partnered with this man for his “Take Me Back.” This man also sang in “Never Leave You” and “Number 1.”
ANSWER: Tinchy Strider [or Kwasi Danquah; or Star in the Hood]
