ACF Fall 2011

Packet by RPI A (Aaron Cohen) and VCU (Sean Smiley and Cody Voight)

Edited by Sarah Angelo, Bryan Berend, Matt Bollinger, Matt Hart, Gaurav Kandlikar, and Matt Menard



1.In the Paschen-Back effect, this entity causes a disruption in the coupling between the orbital and spin angular momentum. If this entity is perpendicular to a current in an electrical conductor, it causes a potential difference in the Hall Effect. Its contour integral is related to the surface integral of total current density in an equation later modified to include displacement current. It causes splitting of spectral lines in the Zeeman effect. Given its generating current, this quantity can be calculated by the Biot-Savart law or Ampere’s law. For 10 points, name this type of field caused by a moving electric charge that is measured in Tesla and symbolized B.
ANSWER: magnetic field [or B before mentioned]



2.This man included a banner of a grinning man among a group of revelers in his Burial of the Sardine. His painting Asmodea once decorated the so-called “House of the Deaf Man” along with a work where a man with long gray hair holds the body of a smaller individual. This artist created “naked” and “clothed” versions of the same maja, and included Witches’ Sabbath and Saturn Devouring His Son in a series. Also known for depicting the family of Charles IV, this man is best known for his Black Paintings and a painting where the central figure is illuminated as he faces a firing squad on the titular date. For 10 points, name this Spanish artist of The Third of May, 1808.

ANSWER: Francisco Jose de Goya y Lucientes



3.This thinker argued that monotheism is the result of competition between religions in his Natural History of Religion. Another concept named for this man concerns the difference between “relations of ideas” and “matters of fact.” The distinction between descriptive and normative propositions is central to this thinker's criticism of ethics, and he criticized inductive reasoning using his namesake fork. For 10 points, name this Scottish thinker who discussed a missing shade of blue and the is/ought problem in his Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion and Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding.

ANSWER: David Hume



4.In one story, a major who loves to fence and was injured in this conflict uses a machine to help restore his damaged hand. That story about this conflict is “In Another Country.” John McCrae described how “the poppies blow between the crosses, row on row” marking the graves of those who died in this conflict. One work set in this conflict asks “what passing-bells for these who die as cattle?” and another describes troops who are “bent double, like old beggars under sacks.” For 10 points, name this conflict described in “In Flanders Fields,” as well as in the poems of Wilfred Owen, including “Anthem for Doomed Youth” and “Dulce et Decorum Est.”

ANSWER: World War I [or First World War; or Great War]



5.This man slashed his arm 100 times in a Sun Dance celebration. He had his son surrender his rifle at Fort Buford in an attempt at assimilation. In his later life, this man was allowed out of captivity to participate in Buffalo Bill’s Wild West show, but he was killed in a skirmish during the Ghost Dance uprising. Before a major battle, this man had a vision of soldiers falling into his camp like grasshoppers. For 10 points, name this Lakota chief who, along with Crazy Horse, defeated the Seventh Cavalry of George Custer at the Battle of Little Bighorn.

ANSWER: Sitting Bull [or Tatanka Iyotanka]



6.In this opera, the duet “Viene la sera” is sung after the female lead has an angry confrontation with one of her relatives. Another aria in it tells of a ship appearing on the horizon and declares that the singer will wait for a character represented by the “Star Spangled Banner” motif. That aria, “Un bel di, vedremo,” is sung just before the protagonist talks to American consul Sharpless and reveals her baby that she had with her husband. At the end of this opera, a U.S. naval officer named Pinkerton discovers that his wife, whose real name is Cio-Cio San, has killed herself in their home in Nagasaki. For 10 points, name this Giacomo Puccini opera set in Japan.

ANSWER: Madame Butterfly [or Madama Butterfly]



7.In this novel, the protagonist’s love interest first appears as an anonymous girl in a red scarf at a church dance. That girl rejects an advance by Denis Eady before the protagonist escorts her home. While the wife of this novel’s title character is away seeing a doctor, her favorite pickle dish is broken. This story is told as a flashback, as the narrator tries to uncover details about a man injured in a “smash up” in Starkfield. That man is the husband of the invalid Zeena, but he falls in love with her cousin, Mattie Silver. For 10 points, name this novel by Edith Wharton in which the title character and his lover attempt to commit suicide by crashing a sled.

ANSWER: Ethan Frome



8.This people’s expansion into France was checked by Clovis at the Battle of Vouille. One leader of this group frequently clashed with Stilicho, a general under Emperor Honorius. After suffering persecution from dishonest governors, this group defeated and killed the emperor Valens at the Battle of Adrianople. This group controlled Spain until the Muslim conquest in the eighth century. Under their leader Alaric I, this group sacked Rome in 410 CE. For 10 points, name this Germanic tribe distinct from the Ostrogoths.

ANSWER: Visigoths [prompt on Goths before “Ostrogoths” is read]



9.This figure’s father originally married a daughter of Eurytion named Antigone and was later accused of raping Acastus. This figure healed a king of Mysia named Telephus, and he also avenged Antilochus by killing a son of Tithonus. In addition to slaying the Ethiopian Memnon, this man killed the Amazon Penthesilea. Because of a prophecy about this figure being stronger than his father, his mother wed a mortal. This man’s armor was disputed between Ajax the Greater and Odysseus before it went to his son Neoptolemus. For 10 points, name this hero whose mother, Thetis, dipped him in the river Styx, protecting all of him save for his heel.

ANSWER: Achilles



10.In this novel, a man avoids detection because his hands are tough and calloused rather than soft and delicate, as had been expected. The protagonist of this novel agrees to help a wounded American outlaw named James Calver, although he realizes that the request is a trap. This novel opens when the protagonist is invited for a drink with a dentist named Mr. Tench, who later witnesses his execution. The lieutenant tracks and finally apprehends the protagonist after he is betrayed by the mestizo. The unnamed protagonist of this novel is on the run in an area of Mexico where religion is outlawed. For 10 points, name this novel by Graham Greene about the Whiskey Priest.

ANSWER: The Power and the Glory



11.This man’s forces executed over 18,000 dissidents during the 2-28 Massacre, which began his White Terror. Through a paramilitary group called the Blue Shirts, this man spread a combination of traditional and fascist ideology called the New Life Movement. After being kidnapped by his own generals in the Xi’an Incident, he made a shaky peace with the CPC to engage the Japanese. This man succeeded Sun Yat-Sen as leader of the Kuomintang. For 10 points, name this Chinese strongman who fled to Taiwan after the success of the Communists.

ANSWER: Chiang Kai-shek [or Chiang Chieh-shih; or Chiang Chung-cheng; or Jiang Jieshi]



12.These objects are similar to a type of object with a continuous spectrum called a BL Lac object. One of these object discovered in 1979 was the first observed instance of gravitational lensing.  These objects are a type of active galactic nuclei, and are believed to be powered by the accretion disc formed from a super-massive black hole at the center of a galaxy. An extremely compact form of these objects is called a blazar (“blaze-are”). These bodies have charactistically high redshifts. For 10 points, name these distant astronomical objects that emit large amounts of energetic light.

ANSWER: quasar [or quasi-stellar radio source]



13.The only complete piece from this composer’s “Men of Literature” series is his Robert Browning Overture. His third symphony is based on church hymns. A more modern work by him uses a piece of wood to produce a large tone cluster. This man drew on popular tunes such as “Camptown Races” in his second symphony and also used “Hello my Baby” in one of his “Two Contemplations.” This composer paired The Unanswered Question with Central Park in the Dark and also depicted Redding, Connecticut and Boston Common in another work. For 10 points, name this American composer of Three Places in New England and the transcendentalism-inspired Concord Sonata.

ANSWER: Charles Edward Ives



14.The Seven Sleepers are described in The Cave, which immediately precedes the sura named for this figure, who also appears in Al Imran, a sura named for this figure's father. The salutations of this figure caused a baby to leap in the womb of the wife of Zacharias. The Assumption celebrates the bodily ascension of this figure, who, in the Eastern church is called theotokos. In Luke 1:26 this figure is visited during the Annunciation by Gabriel, and, according to the dogma of the Immaculate Conception, this daughter of St. Anne was born free of original sin. A prayer to this cousin of Elizabeth calls her “blessed amongst women." For 10 points, name this virgin wife of Joseph.

ANSWER: the Blessed Virgin Mary [or Holy Mary, Mother of God; accept other epithtets such as Saint, Mother, etc.]



15.One of the starting products of this process is produced by a multienzyme complex that consists of TPP and the enzymes E1, E2, and E3. Aconitase catalyzes an isomerization reaction in this process. NADH is one of the major inhibitors of this process, which includes a dehydrogenation process in which succinate is reacted to form fumarate. In the final step of this process, malate is oxidized to regenerate oxalate. That oxalate is initially consumed in this reaction’s first step in a process catalyzed by acetyl CoA to form citrate. For 10 points, name this metabolic process sometimes referred to as the citric acid cycle.

ANSWER: Krebs cycle [or tricarboxylic acid cycle; or TCA cycle; accept citric acid cycle before mentioned]



16.During the early 1600s, Michael the Brave briefly united this nation. During World War II, this nation was the site of a pogrom called the Legionnaire’s Rebellion, which was committed by members of the far right Iron Guard. A modern ruler of this nation attempted to increase its population by prohibiting abortion and designating women who bore over ten children “Heroine Mothers.” That ruler was executed on Christmas Day, 1989, along with his wife Elena. Historically, its regions have included Moldavia, Wallachia, and Transylvania. For 10 points, name this country, which suffered through the dictatorship of Nicolae Ceausescu.

ANSWER: Romania



17.In one work by this man, Tobin, Toadvine, and a runaway called “the kid” join the Glanton gang. This man described the experiences of the young Lacey Rawlins, Jimmy Blevins, and John Grady as they travel south to seek work in a novel that is part of his Border Trilogy. Another work by this man follows an unnamed father and son on a journey in a post-apocalyptic world. In a novel by this author of The Road, Llewelyn Moss is pursued by the sociopathic hitman Anton Chigurh after he recovers money from a drug deal along the border in Mexico. For 10 points, name this American author of Westerns such as All the Pretty Horses and No Country for Old Men.

ANSWER: Cormac McCarthy [or Charles McCarthy, Jr.]



18.One form of this quantity can be calculated using the Kapustinskii equation or the Born-Lande equation. According to Maxwell’s relations, the second partial derivative of this quantity is equal to the partial derivative of temperature with respect to pressure. The sum of the electrostatic potentials in a lattice, also called the Madelung constant, is proportional to this quantity. Specific heat at constant pressure is equal to partial derivative of this quantity. Hess’s law determines the change in this quantity for a chemical reaction. For 10 points, name this quantity that measures energy and is symbolized with an H.

ANSWER: enthalpy [prompt on H before mentioned]



19.This man rejected his own theory that deficit-based spending cannot increase demand because consumers can predict tax increase. In addition to his namesake “equivalence,” he is known for a law stating that the wage of workers stabilizes at the sustenance level. In addition to his Law of Rent, this economist also used the trade of English cloth for Portuguese wine to describe his most famous principle. For 10 points, name this nineteenth century who introduced comparative advantage in his Principles of Political Economy and Taxation and is credited with the “iron law of wages.”

ANSWER: David Ricardo



20.This football team changed cities in the late 1940s in an agreement in which they drafted Woody Strode and Kenny Washington, the first African-Americans in the NFL. This team’s current roster includes wide receiver Danny Amendola, and throughout most of the 2000s their quarterback was Mark Bulger. In the late 1990s, this team built a collection of talent known as “the greatest show on turf” that included Torry Holt, Isaac Bruce and Kurt Warner, which led them to an exciting Super Bowl win over the Tennessee Titans. For 10 points, name this NFC West team whose current players include running back Steven Jackson and quarterback Sam Bradford.

ANSWER: St. Louis Rams [or St. Louis Rams]



21.A volcano located on the small island of Jabal al-Tair on this body of water erupted in 2007. The Hejaz Mountains lie along the eastern shore of this body of water. The Great Rift Valley branches off in a northwestern direction to form this body of water’s namesake rift. Jeddah is the largest port on this body of water. The Bab-el-Mandeb connects this body of water to the Gulf of Aden, and, to the north, the Strait of Tiran connects it to Eilat and the Gulf of Aqaba. Sharm el-Sheikh lies on the northern part of this body of water on the Sinai Peninsula. For 10 points, name this long, narrow sea bordered by Saudi Arabia and Egypt.

ANSWER: Red Sea



Bonuses: 



1.Moksha is the release from this process, which is the tendency to keep creating worlds and moving into them. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this cycle of birth, life, death, and reincarnation common to Buddhism, Hinduism, and Jainism.

ANSWER: samsara

[10] This word denotes the nature of the actions a person performs in their life and is the law of moral causation that governs samsara.

ANSWER: karma

[10] This Buddhist term encompasses the state of nature as it is, the laws of nature, the duties that must be performed in accordance with the laws of nature, and the results that are derived from the fulfillment of said duties.

ANSWER: dharma [or dhamma]



2.Kabir, Haresh, and Amit meet the criteria to be the title character of this novel. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this novel about a search undertaken by Lata’s mother, Rupa Mehra, to find the title figure for her.

ANSWER: A Suitable Boy

[10] This author of A Suitable Boy wrote of Michael, a member of the Maggiore Quartet, who is reunited with his beloved Julia after ten years to find that she has married in An Equal Music.

ANSWER: Vikram Seth

[10] A Suitable Boy takes place in the post-independence landscape of this nation. Ancient writings from this nation include the Vedas.

ANSWER: Republic of India [or Bharatiya Ganarajya]



3.This man succeeded John Endecott in his first stint as governor. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this governor of the Massachusetts Bay Colony, who envisioned his settlement as a “city upon a hill”.

ANSWER: John Winthrop

[10] Winthrop’s son John was instrumental in the foundation of a British colony in this modern day state, uniting it with New Haven colony.

ANSWER: Connecticut

[10] While governor of Massachusetts, Winthrop took part in this conflict against the Mohegan and Narragansett tribes.

ANSWER: Pequot War



4.The central tenet of this work is that writing is derived from speech and thus speech does a better job representing a language. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this 1967 philosophical work by Jacques Derrida that claims “there is nothing outside the text.”

ANSWER: Of Grammatology [or De la grammatologie]

[10] Among the critics of Derrida’s unorthodox style of writing was this French philosopher of Madness and Civilization and Discipline and Punish.

ANSWER: Paul Michel Foucault

[10] Derrida’s work Limited Inc. contains a critique of this British philosopher’s How to Do Things with Words. This man also wrote the posthumously published Sense and Sensibilia.

ANSWER: John Langshaw Austin



5.Tereus guides two characters in this play to the land of the title creatures. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this play in which Peithetairos and Euelpides live with the title creatures in Cloudcuckooland.

ANSWER: The Birds

[10] In this play by the author of The Birds, Dionysus travels with his slave Xanthias to recover Euripedes from the underworld. The title creatures of this play repeatedly chant “Brekekekex, ko-ax, ko-ax.”

ANSWER: The Frogs

[10] This Greek comic playwright of The Birds and The Frogs wrote of a group of women who withhold sex in order to end a war in Lysistrata.

ANSWER: Aristophanes



6.This artist’s earlier works include Sprite Heads Playing Violin and Before and After, the latter of which was based on advertisements for plastic surgery. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this American artist who was shot three times by Valerie Solanas at his studio, which was called The Factory. He also coined the expression “15 minutes of fame.”

ANSWER: Andy Warhol [or Andrew Warhola]

[10] Warhol may be best known for works depicting the same image many times. One such image is the cans of this soup company.

ANSWER: Campbell Soup Company [or Campbell’s]

[10] Another member of the Pop Art movement is this English painter who has made news in 2010 with drawings created on his iPhone and iPad. He also painted A Bigger Splash and Mr and Mrs Clark and Percy.

ANSWER: David Hockney



7.Turkey’s Article 301 has led to controversy over whether it can join this organization. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this supranational organization of 27 member states, including Germany, France, and Spain. Many members of this organization use a common currency worth slightly more than the US dollar.

ANSWER: European Union [or EU]

[10] This 1992 treaty, signed in a city in the Netherlands, established the European Union.

ANSWER: Treaty of Maastricht

[10] The European Union grew partially out of a community established in 1952 according to the Schuman Plan, whose member states formed a common market for these two products.

ANSWER: coal and steel



8.The carrier protein Neurophysin II shuttles this hormone, and patients of diabetes insipidus either produce insufficient amounts of this hormone or can not detect it. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this hormone which increases the reabsorption of water in the kidneys.

ANSWER: anti-diuretic hormone [or argenine vasopressin; or ADH; or AVP]

[10] Anti-diuretic hormone is released by this “master gland” that also releases oxytocin.

ANSWER: pituitary gland

[10] ADH increases water reabsorption by stimulating production of one of these transmembrane proteins. Some of these proteins are also capable of transporting glycerol across cell membranes.

ANSWER: aquaporin [or aquaporin-2; or AQP; or AQP-2]



9.The horse in this sculpture rests its front left hoof on a cannon ball, and this sculpture can be found in the Piazza del Santo in Padua. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this equestrian statue of the condottiero Erasmo of Narni, who had a nickname meaning “The Honeyed Cat”.

ANSWER: Gattamelata

[10] This Florentine artist’s sculpture of the prophet Habbakuk is nicknamed Zuccone, or “Pumpkin-head.” He also created Gattamelata and a bronze David, the first free-standing nude since antiquity.

ANSWER: Donatello [or Donato di Niccolò di Betto Bardi]

[10] Donatello also created sculptures of St. Mark and St. George for this Florentine cathedral. The various guilds of Florence commissioned sculptures for this cathedral in the late 1300’s and early 1400’s.

ANSWER: Orsanmichele [or Kitchen Garden of St. Michael]



10.For 10 points each, answer these questions about the era of apartheid in South Africa.

[10] This first black president of South Africa arranged for a Truth and Reconciliation Commission to investigate human rights abuses under apartheid. He was imprisoned on Robben Island for 20 years.

ANSWER: Nelson Rolihlala Mandela

[10] Apartheid came to an end with the election of Nelson Mandela, a member of this political party, whose other members include Jacob Zuma.

ANSWER: African National Congress [or ANC]

[10] The ANC developed an armed wing called the “Spear of the Nation” following this March 1960 massacre by South African police.

ANSWER: Sharpeville Massacre



11.Cyclybutadiene is less stable than other similar compounds because it does not obey this rule. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this rule named for a German scientist which states that when a cyclic compounds has 4n+2 pi electrons, it has aromatic properties.

ANSWER: Huckel’s Rule

[10] This six carbon cyclic compound exemplifies aromaticity. Phenol and toluene, which are made up of OH and CH3 groups attached to this compound, also exhibit aromaticity.

ANSWER: benzene [or C6H6]

[10] Huckel names an equation with this Dutch physicist, which describes the activity coefficient of electrolytic solutions. This scientist names a model which predicts that the specific heat is proportional to temperature cubed.

ANSWER: Peter Joseph William Debye (deh-“buy”)



12.Estonian composer Arvo Part wrote a Cantus in Memoriam for this composer, one of whose works has a tenor solo titled “What passing bells” in its first movement. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this composer who set Wilfred Owen poems to music in the aforementioned War Requiem.

ANSWER: Benjamin Britten

[10] Britten also composed this piece, with sections highlighting each section of the orchestra, meant to educate children unfamiliar with the musical process.

ANSWER: The Young Person’s Guide to the Orchestra

[10] The Young Person’s Guide to the Orchestra is based in part on Abdelazar, a work by this earlier English composer who made an adaption of A Midsummer Night’s Dream titled The Fairy-Queen.

ANSWER: Henry Purcell



13.The Piraha is a tribe that lives in this region and was studied by linguist Daniel Everett. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this largest rainforest in the world found mainly in Brazil and Peru.

ANSWER: Amazon Rainforest

[10] This city is the capital of northwestern Brazilian state of Amazonas. In the late nineteenth century, it was known for its tremendous rubber production.

ANSWER: Manaus

[10] Manaus is located at the confluence of the Amazon River and this other river, so named for the dark color it has a result of tannins being leeched into it.

ANSWER: Rio Negro [or Negro River]



14.This experiment was designed to examine prejudice towards socially undesirable groups. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this experiment that involved distributing four groups of 100 of the title objects, addressed to medical research associates, friends of the Nazi party, friends of the Communist party, and Mr. Walter Carnap.

ANSWER: lost letter experiment

[10] This experiment by the same psychologist was designed to quantitatively determine degrees of separation in social networks. It involved 160 people in Omaha, Nebraska being instructed to send a package to a man given only his job title and other basic information.

ANSWER: small world experiment

[10] Those two experiments were performed by this psychologist, whose most famous experiment saw people administer electric shocks when ordered to by an authority figure.

ANSWER: Stanly Milgram



15.Galli were devotees of this goddess who castrated themselves in honor of her son and consort Attis. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this Phyrgian goddess who was identified with the earth mother Mater Magna in her cults at Rome.

ANSWER: Cybele

[10] Cybele’s lover Attis is often seen as a Phyrgian analogue of this figure. In Greek mythology, he is a beautiful mortal lover of Aphrodite who is eventually killed by a boar.

ANSWER: Adonis

[10] The most famous ritual of the Roman Mater Magna cult involves a baptism in the blood of this animal. One of these animals was slain by Mithras. Zeus also abducted Europa in this form.

ANSWER: bulls



16.These particles have charge equal to either two thirds the charge of an electron or negative one third the electron charge. For 10 points each:

[10] Name these subatomic particles whose six variants include strange and bottom. Three of them combine to form baryons like protons and neutrons.

ANSWER: quarks

[10] These hadrons consist of one quark and one antiquark held together by the strong force. The charm quark was discovered in the J/Psi type of these particles.

ANSWER: mesons

[10] This group of four mesons consists of mesons which have a strange quark or antiquark. CP violation was first observed in the decay of neutral ones.

ANSWER: kaons



17.This woman goes on a date with a U.N. interpreter named Constantine and is given electroshock therapy from Dr. Nolan. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this woman who interns at a New York City magazine, and who is the protagonist of The Bell Jar.

ANSWER: Esther Greenwood [or Esther Greenwood]

[10] This American author of the poetry collection Ariel, in which the speaker warns “Herr God, Herr Lucifer” that she will rise “out of the ash” in “Lady Lazarus,” wrote The Bell Jar.

ANSWER: Sylvia Plath [prompt on Victoria Lucas]

[10] In this Plath poem, she tells the title character that “you do not do, you do not do any more, black shoe,” before telling him, “you bastard, I’m through.”

ANSWER: “Daddy”



18.In 492 BCE, Persian forces invaded Ancient Greece. For 10 points each:

[10] Persian forces were soundly defeated at this 490 BCE battle. In its aftermath, a Greek messenger ran about 26 miles to Athens to deliver news of the victory.

ANSWER: Battle of Marathon

[10] At the Battle of Marathon, Greek forces were commanded by this man, who was earlier a tyrant of the region of Chersonese.

ANSWER: Miltiades the Younger

[10] The Persian invasion was a response against theses revolts starting in Asia Minor in 499 BCE.

ANSWER: Ionian revolts



19.When a population reaches this property for any given environment, the population’s net rate is predicted to equal its net death rate. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this term from population dynamics that describes the number of individuals of a given species an environment can support in the long term.

ANSWER: carrying capacity [prompt on k]

[10] Unlike k-selected species, species who experience this form of selection have high rates of fecundity. Organisms that experience this selection have small body size and have a Type III survivorship curve.

ANSWER: r-selected [or r-selection]

[10] This 1976 Richard Dawkins book effectively rips apart V.C. Wynne Edwards’ theory that populations demonstrate group selection when their size approaches carrying capacity.

ANSWER: The Selfish Gene



20.The speaker of this poem has “measured out [his] life with coffee spoons.” For 10 points each:

[10] Name this poem in which the speaker sees a room where the “women come and go talking of Michelangelo,” and says, “I have heard the mermaids singing, each to each. I do not think that they will sing to me.”

ANSWER: “The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock”

[10] This British poet of “The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock” wrote “April is the cruellest month” in The Waste Land.

ANSWER: T.S. Eliot [or Thomas Stearns Eliot]

[10] In this piece from The Sacred Wood, Eliot notes that “Goethe made of [the Shakespearean title character] a Werther, and…Coleridge…made of [him] a Coleridge,” while disagreeing with their means of criticizing the work. 

ANSWER: “Hamlet and His Problems”



21.Sacheen Littlefeather accepted this man’s Academy Award in 1973. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this actor who played Don Corleone in The Godfather.

ANSWER: Marlon Brando, Jr.

[10] Brando also portrayed Paul, the main character of this 1972 Bernardo Bertolucci film about a recent widower who has an affair with a French woman named Jeanne.

ANSWER: Last Tango in Paris [or Ultimo Tango a Parigi]

[10] Brando portrayed the title character of Viva Zapata!, a 1952 film directed by this man who named several communists in Hollywood in a 1952 testimony to HUAC.

ANSWER: Elia Kazan [or Elia Kazanjoglous]

