ACF Fall 2011
Packet by St. Anselm’s Abbey School (Aidan Mehigan, Jacob Wasserman, Patrick Merkle) and Alberta (Sinan Ulusoy, Rishi Nair, et. al)
Edited by Sarah Angelo, Bryan Berend, Matt Bollinger, Matt Hart, Gaurav Kandlikar, and Matt Menard

1.Photographer David Seymour showed this work’s creator underneath its depiction of a woman who raises her hands in agony. An arm holds a lamp at its center next to a light bulb in the shape of an eye. A bull stands over a woman holding her dead child on its left side. A reproduction of this work located at the U.N. headquarters was covered by a curtain in 2003 in order to hide such images as a man with a broken sword being trampled by a Cubist horse. Commissioned for the 1937 World’s Fair, this work shows the horrors of the Nazi-bombing of a certain Basque city. For 10 points, name this painting by Pablo Picasso.
ANSWER: Guernica

2.One portion of these structures is hypothesized to be homologous to bacterial type III secretion systems, and choanocytes on sponges possess these structures. Organisms in one phylum named for these structures have grooves called cingula that contain the sulcus. In bacteria, the rod connects this structure’s hook and filament to the basal body, and organisms with these structures include Chlamydomonas. These structures’ axonemes have a 9+2 arrangement of microtubules, and these propel organisms like Euglena by rotating or moving back and forth. Contrasted with cilia, these are, for 10 points, what whip-like structures used by sperm for locomotion?
ANSWER: flagellum [or flagella]

3.One of this man’s secretaries, Thomas Burke, was killed in the Phoenix Park Murders. His education minister, William Forster, passed an act establishing school boards nationwide. As prime minister, he introduced the secret ballot and limits on campaign expenditures and disestablished the Irish Church. He denounced the “Bulgarian Horrors” during his Midlothian campaign. Queen Victoria chastised him after Mahdists killed “Chinese” Gordon at Khartoum. He passed the Third Reform Act but failed to pass Irish Home Rule. For 10 points, name this “Grand Old Man,” a four-time Liberal British prime minister and rival of Benjamin Disraeli.
ANSWER: William Ewart Gladstone

4.One repeated song in this opera ends with the line “Love awaits you.” One character sings “En vain pour éviter les réponses amères” after drawing the ace of spades, signaling death. Act Two is set at an inn where the male lead draws his sword on his superior officer Zuniga. The male lead of this work is first in love with Micaela, but later sings about his new love interest who threw a flower at his feet in Act One. That action occurs after the female lead sings an aria comparing love to a rebellious bird in this opera’s “Habanera.” Escamillo’s “Torreador Song” is heard at its end after Don José kills the title character. For 10 points, name this opera by Georges Bizet about a gypsy girl.
ANSWER: Carmen

5.This author of Essay on Liberation critiqued the USSR in Soviet Marxism and Marxist art in his The Aesthetic Dimension. In another work, this man claims that it is impossible to be a diverse individual and details the title figure's “false needs.” Another of his works has chapters on Orpheus and Narcissus as well as “The Origin of the Repressed Individual.” That work by this man contrasts part of its title with Thanatos and the “performance” and “reality” principles, and that work is a critique of Freud’s Civilization and Its Discontents. For 10 points, name this Frankfurt school author of One Dimensional Man and Eros and Civilization.
ANSWER: Herbert Marcuse

6.This man had Omar Aqta make a Quran that could fit within a ring. The bazaar and mausoleum of this man’s youngest wife, Touman Aka, stand near the Bibi Khanoum complex he built for Saray Mulk in the Registan. This ruler defeated Mahmud Tughluq, but he died before he could attack Ming China. At Smyrna, he besieged the Hospitallers. After winning at Ankara, he legendarily used Ottoman Bayezid the Thunderbolt as a footstool. He defeated Tokhtamysh to crush the Golden Horde, razed Delhi, deported the artisans from Damascus, and left pyramids of skulls. For 10 points, name this Mongol-descended, Central Asian ruler from Samarkand with a limp.
ANSWER: Tamerlane [or Timur the Lame; or Timur-e Lang; or Timur-i Leng; or Timur Lenk; or Timurlank; or Tamburlaine; or Tamerlame]

7.Gerhard Ertl won his Nobel Prize in 2007 in part due to his work on the mechanism of this process. Potassium hydroxide acts as a catalytic promoter of this process. The biological version of this process is facilitated by molybdenum-based enzymes. The product of this reaction is usually removed to drive the reaction to the right in a famous application of Le Chatlier’s Principle. An iron oxide catalyst is used in this industrial process, the product of which is also synthesized by rhizobia. The Ostwald process converts this process’s product into nitric acid. For 10 points, identify this industrial process that combines hydrogen and nitrogen to make ammonia.
ANSWER: Haber-Bosch process [or Haber-Bosch reaction]

8.Victor Herbert contributed to some of the transitional material in this composition, whose success led Walter Damrosch to commission its composer to write a piano concerto in F. After a muted trumpet plays a blues theme in its first movement, the full orchestra joins in before an extended piano solo; that solo was played by its composer at its premiere. Later orchestrated by Ferde Grofé, this piece was commissioned by the bandleader Paul Whiteman for 1924’s Experiment in Modern Music. Beginning with a notable clarinet glissando, this is, for 10 points, what jazz composition by George Gershwin?
ANSWER: Rhapsody in Blue

9.This nation defined its eastern border in the Treaty of Zgorzelec. One premiere of this nation launched a propaganda campaign called the “Main Task.” The New Course and the ESS were reforms in this nation, which was the target of the Hallstein Doctrine. This country was ruled by the SED, whose last leader, Egon Krenz, resigned before the signing of the 2+4 Agreement. At one point, the Stasi secret police employed one in seven citizens of this nation. This nation, the foremost target of Ostpolitik, was led by Erich Honecker. For 10 points, name this communist country that reunified with a western neighbor and whose capital was split by the Berlin Wall.
ANSWER: East Germany [or Ostdeutschland; or German Democratic Republic; or GDR; or Deutsche Demokratische Republik; or DDR; do not accept or prompt on “Germany” or “Deutschland”]

10.This figure’s mother spurned King Lygni to marry his father. This man is killed by Guttorm, the son of Gjuki and the sorceress Grimhild, who gave this figure a forgetfulness potion after this figure gave Andvaranaut to a woman he awoke by removing her helmet. This man used an anvil-cleaving weapon to kill a foe whose blood allowed this man to understand birds. Birds told this man that Otr’s brother Regin would betray him. This husband of Gudrun won Gunnar a wife by riding Grani through the ring of fire surrounding Brynhildr’s castle. For 10 points, name this hero of the Volsung Saga who used the sword Gram to slay the gold-grabbing dragon Fafnir and was the son of Sigmund.
ANSWER: Sigurd [or Sigfried]

11.In this work, Braxton Bragg Underwood protects another character by aiming a shotgun from the window of his office. That character in this novel is revealed to have once been nicknamed “one-shot” when he is asked to kill a rabid dog. Two characters in this work attend church with Calpurnia and befriend a summertime visitor to Maycomb named Dill. In this work, Bob Ewell accuses Tom Robinson of raping his dauther Mayella, and he attacks two children who are rescued by “Boo” Radley. For 10 points, name this novel narrated by Scout about her father Atticus Finch, which was written by Harper Lee.
ANSWER: To Kill a Mockingbird

12.These objects were studied by Heinrich Heesch, who developed the idea of “discharging.” Because “chains” could be tangled, Kempe’s proof of a theorem about these objects was flawed. Tait proved that theorem to be equivalent to the claim that no snarks are planar, and that theorem is a special case of the Hadwiger conjecture. One of these objects on a Klein bottle does not satisfy the conditions of the Heawood conjecture. Haken and Appel used a computer-aided proof that checks over nineteen-hundred reducible configurations of these objects in order to solve Guthrie’s problem. For 10 points, name these objects from graph theory that can be properly colored with four hues.
ANSWER: maps [accept graphs before mentioned]

13.The treatment of these entities was the basis of the Schlegel brothers’ categorization of languages. A lexeme catalogues the ways these units can be assembled around a central one to create a word family. This unit’s “cranberry” variety is unique to a single word. The “free” kind of these units can stand alone, but “bound” ones must be affixed. Words in isolating languages generally have few of these, agglutinative words join these units together, and fusional languages combine them by means of inflection. For 10 points, name this linguistic unit that is the smallest part of a word that still carries semantic meaning.
ANSWER: morphemes

14.At the end of this novel, the pharmacist Homais receives a government decoration. A sex scene in this novel is narrated entirely from outside the cab in which it takes place. One character in this novel is reunited with a law student during a performance of Lucia di Lammermoor. In this work, the title character’s husband botches a surgery while attempting to treat a club-footed man. The title character of this novel borrows money from Lheureux in order to continue her affairs with Rodolphe and Leon. That title character of this work swallows arsenic after going bankrupt. For 10 points, name this novel by Gustave Flaubert.
ANSWER: Madame Bovary

15.In this religion’s ceremonies, spirits like the Erzuli “mount” their “horses.” The kanzo ceremony allows conversion to this religion. Practitioners of this religion believe in the “ti bon ange,” or consciousness, and the “gros bon ange,” or soul, which inhabits a clay jar called a gobi after death. Spirits in this religion are attracted to intricate floor designs called veves, created by its clergy, the houngans and the mambos. In this religion, the link to the spirit world of Guinee is a crossroads presided over by Papa Legba, who, along with Baron Samedi, is one of the loas under Bondye. For 10 points, name this Caribbean religion that syncretises Catholicism and Yoruban beliefs.
ANSWER: Voodoo [or Voudon]

16.Conservation of energy can be derived from this theory by the use of the Bianchi identity and the properties of the Ricci tensor. This theory predicts an effect that can result in the formation of a ring named for its formulator. In addition to gravitational lensing and frame dragging, it successfully predicted the precession of the perihelion of Mercury. The equations of this theory include terms such as the stress-energy tensor, space-time curvature, and the cosmological constant. For 10 points, name this theory, according to which gravity is a consequence of curved spacetime, and which is based on the Einstein field equations.
ANSWER: general relativity [prompt on relativity; do not accept “special relativity”]

17.In one work by this man, Teddy brings his wife into his father’s household, which she comes to dominate. During a game of blind man’s bluff in a play by this author of The Homecoming, a character tries to rape Lulu after Meg and Petey Boles organize the title event for Stanley Webber, who is taken away by Goldberg and McCann. In another play by this man, two men argue about the score of a football game and lighting the kettle before they use a speaking tube to report a lack of food in the room where the hit man Ben points a gun at his partner Gus. For 10 points, name this British playwright of The Birthday Party and The Dumb Waiter.
ANSWER: Harold Pinter

18.In the north of this state lie the Baraga Forest and the Porcupine Mountains. Though Marshall did not become the capital of this state, a “governor’s mansion” was built there. The suburb of Eastpointe in this state changed its name from one associated with a nearby city. Bad Axe lies over sixty miles north of the St. Clair and Huron Rivers in this state, which contains Muskegon, Traverse City, and Saginaw Bay. The Straits of Mackinac divide this state, in which Kalamazoo and Flint are found. This state, which borders four Great Lakes, has an Upper Peninsula. For 10 points, name this state whose cities include Lansing, Ann Arbor, and Detroit.
ANSWER: Michigan

19.Steel magnate George Rappalyea convinced fellow businessmen to sponsor this event during a meeting at Robinson’s Drug Store. Fears of a floor collapse moved this event outside. ACLU member Dudley Malone made a speech during this event, which was adjudicated by John Raulston. The namesake of this event was a prospective car salesman and part-time football coach who was fined $100 for violating the Butler Act. During this event, prosecutor William Jennings Bryan was cross-examined by Clarence Darrow. For 10 points, name this 1925 court case in which a Tennessee teacher was found guilty of teaching evolution.
ANSWER: Scopes Monkey Trial [or State of Tennessee v. John Thomas Scopes; or John Thomas Scopes v. State of Tennessee]

20.In one novel, this man described Urania Cabral’s disgust for her father Agustin, who was part of the Trujillo regime. Another novel by this author of The Feast of the Goat describes employees of Genaro Jr. In that novel by this man, one character vilifies Argentineans because his Argentinean wife became a prostitute to support their family, and another character pursues an unconventional marriage. This man alternated Radio Panamerica soap opera scripts with chapters chronicling the lives of Pedro Camacho and the narrator. For 10 points, name this Peruvian author and 2010 Nobel laureate, the author of Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter.
ANSWER: Jorge Mario Pedro Vargas Llosa

21.This band titled one album after entities its leader claimed were “tiny prayer[s] to Father Time” in a song that says, “love is watching someone die.” This band’s leader sang of a desire to “[make] a lake of the East River and Hudson” for a girl whose “sorrow drips into [her] heart through a pin hole.” This band included “What Sarah Said” with “Marching Bands of Manhattan” on their 2005 sequel to an album arguing, “the glove compartment is inaccurately named” in the song “Title and Registration.” Led by Chris Walla and Ben Gibbard, for 10 points, name this indie band of “Soul Meets Body” and “Crooked Teeth” whose albums include Plans and Transatlanticism.
ANSWER: Death Cab for Cutie

Bonuses:

1.This dynasty faced the Yellow Turban Rebellion and the Five Pecks of Rice Rebellion. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this dynasty that ruled China from roughly 200 BC to 200 AD. It conquered much of central Asia under its most militant emperor, Wudi.
ANSWER: Han Dynasty
[10] The Han Dynasty traded this resource to Rome and Parthia via a namesake “road.” It is used in textiles and obtained from the cocoons of a certain worm.
ANSWER: silk
[10] After the death of Emperor Cheng, the Han Dynasty was interrupted by the Xin dynasty established by this Confucian fundamentalist, who tried to restore the well-field system and other customs of the Zhou.
ANSWER: Wang Mang

2.Name the following terms you are likely to encounter when studying protein-protein interactions, for 10 points each.
[10] This method of investigating protein-protein interactions involves introducing an antibody targeted to one of the genes of interest and then performing a Western Blot. Two bands on a Western Blot suggest interaction.
ANSWER: co-immunoprecipitation [or Co-IP]
[10] This model yeast of genus Saccharomyces is often used in yeast two-hybrid studies of protein-protein interactions. In addition to being used in labs, this yeast is commonly used to make bread and beer.
ANSWER: Saccaromyces cerevisiae
[10] Yeast two-hybrid studies often make use of the fact that active beta-galactosidase, which are coded by this operon, can cleave x-gal. This operon was first discovered in E. coli.
ANSWER: lac operon

3.A man in straw hat looks down from a railing in this work, which also shows people hanging their clothes at the bottom. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this work where a drawbridge is pulled up to the SS Kaiser Wilhelm II, a ship full of European immigrants, many of whom have already gotten off.
ANSWER: The Steerage
[10] The Steerage is a photograph taken by this man, whose other photographs included The Terminal and Winter Fifth Avenue. This photographer opened the gallery 291 and was married to painter Georgia O’Keeffe.
ANSWER: Alfred Stieglitz
[10] The Terminal shows a man washing off these animals. Another photographer, Eadweard Muybridge, was hired by Leland Stanford to investigate whether or not this animal becomes completely airborne while galloping.
ANSWER: horses

4.This city was founded on site of the Indian village of Stadacona. For 10 points each:
[10] This Canadian settlement, the capital of New France, was founded by Samuel de Champlain, along with Montreal. During the French and Indian War, General Wolfe died on the Plains of Abraham outside this city.
ANSWER: City of Quebec [or Quebec City; or Ville de Québec]
[10] This French explorer of the Gaspé Peninsula and the St. Lawrence River discovered Quebec and Prince Edward Island. He gave Canada its name, claiming it for Francis I in 1534.
ANSWER: Jacques Cartier
[10] This other French explorer, who discovered the Ohio River, traded furs along with Henri de Tonti in Canada’s Great Lakes region before going down the Mississippi River. He established Fort Saint Louis and named Louisiana.
ANSWER: Robert de La Salle [or René-Robert Cavelier]

5.This novel’s characters do a lot of drinking, dancing, and bullfight-watching in Pamplona. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel about the love of the impotent World War I vet Jake Barnes for Lady Brett Ashley. Before heading to Pamplona, Jake goes fishing with Bill Gorton and hangs out with other expatriates in Paris.
ANSWER: The Sun Also Rises [or Fiesta]
[10] The Sun Also Rises is a novel by this American author of The Old Man and the Sea and A Farewell to Arms.
ANSWER: Ernest Miller Hemingway
[10] The Sun Also Rises begins with a description of this Jewish boxing champ from Princeton. He plays tennis with Jake and has a brief affair with Brett in San Sebastian.
ANSWER: Robert Cohn [accept either]

6.It begins with the title character asking Socrates whether or not one can teach virtue. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Platonic dialogue in which Socrates shows the title slave how to double the area of a square.
ANSWER: Meno
[10] This other Platonic dialogue outlines the Theory of Recollection and the Argument from Affinity and ends with Socrates drinking hemlock.
ANSWER: Phaedo
[10] In this dialogue, Socrates explains to the title rhapsode that his knowledge of poetry is limited to Homer and argues that he doesn’t have any “real” talent but, rather, is merely inspired.
ANSWER: Ion

7.One effect of this kind named for Tyndall occurs when light passes through a colloid, while another causes the sky to appear blue. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this family of effects and phenomena that cause radiation to stray from a straight path. Examples include the type named for Rayleigh and an inelastic type named for Raman.
ANSWER: scattering [accept word forms]
[10] In this form of scattering, an X-ray or gamma ray photon loses energy, which it passes to an electron. This type of scattering is a higher-energy version of Thomson scattering.
ANSWER: Compton scattering [or Compton effect]
[10] In both Compton and Thomson scattering, the differential cross section of the photons of the lowest order is given in terms of scattering angle and the ratio of photon energies by this doubly-eponymous formula.
ANSWER: Klein-Nishina formula

8.In this novella, a wayward apple to the back causes the death of the main character. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novella about Gregor Samsa, who awakens one morning to find himself transformed into a monstrous vermin.
ANSWER: The Metamorphosis [or Die Verwandlung]
[10] This Austrian author of The Metamorphosis also wrote about Joseph K’s arrest for an unknown crime in The Trial.
ANSWER: Franz Kafka
[10] In The Metamorphosis, Gregor’s dream is to raise money to send this sister of his to violin school. This character is the only one to care for Gregor in his transformed state.
ANSWER: Grete Samsa [prompt on Samsa]

9.Name some figures associated with dragon-slaying in mythology, for 10 points each.
[10] This dragon-like creature had two heads grow to replace each that was cut off. Heracles eventually had to use fire to defeat this creature as part of his second labor.
ANSWER: Lernaean Hydra
[10] This Shinto sun kami received the Grasscutter sword Kusanagi from her dragon-slaying brother Susanoo at the end of a long feud which saw this goddess hiding in the Heavenly Rock Cave.
ANSWER: Amaterasu
[10] This being was created by Tvashtri and had to be slain with sea foam at twilight. In earlier versions of the story, he depicted as a dragon and personification of drought who was slain by the Vedic storm god Indra.
ANSWER: Vritra

10.It is the first of the Millennium Prize Problems, and a central open question of complexity theory. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this problem from computer science that asks whether all solutions that can be computed in polynomial time can also be verified in polynomial time.
ANSWER: P versus NP [also accept equivalents like “does P equal NP?”, “P equals NP,” or “P doesn't equal NP”]
[10] If P is equal to NP then there is an efficient algorithm for solving the decision version of this problem. Given a list of cities and distances, it asks for the shortest tour in which the namesake person visits each exactly once.
ANSWER: Traveling Salesman Problem
[10] The decision version of the traveling salesman problem has this property, which means that it lies inside NP and is at least as hard as any other problem in that class. If one of these problems is in P, then P equals NP.
ANSWER: NP complete

11.For 10 points each, answer the following about Diego Rivera.
[10] This mural by Diego Rivera is located in a certain Midwestern city’s “Institute of Arts.” Its main panels depict workers at a Ford factory making parts for automobiles, while other panels show the effects of technology.
ANSWER: Detroit Industry
[10] Rivera was married to this other artist, whose self portraits include one “with cropped hair” and a double self-portrait whose two figures are connected by a blood vein. She was severely injured after a trolley accident.
ANSWER: Frida Kahlo de Rivera [or Magdalena Carmen Frida Kahlo y Calderon]
[10] Both Rivera and Kahlo hail from this nation. Rivera showed skeletons dancing in his depiction of its Day of the Dead holiday. Another painter from this country, José Orozco, painted a fiery Father Miguel Hidalgo.
ANSWER: Mexico [or United Mexican States; or Estados Unidos Mexicanos]

12.Einhard and Alcuin of York worked for this ruler. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Frankish king with a court at Aachen and a namesake “Renaissance,” who was also the conqueror of Lombardy and son of Pepin the Short. Leo III crowned him “Emperor of the Romans” on Christmas.
ANSWER: Charlemagne [or Charles the Great; or Karl der Grosse; or Carolus Magnus; or Charles I; or Charles le Grand; prompt on “Charles;” prompt on “Karl”]
[10] At this battle, which occurred after a Frankish campaign against the Muslims in Spain, Charlemagne’s rear guard under Roland was ambushed by Basques in the Pyrenees Mountains.
ANSWER: Battle of Roncevaux Pass [or Battle of Roncevalles Pass; or Battle of Orreaga Pass]
[10] This brother of Charlemagne suddenly died in 771 amidst plots against him by his mother, Bertrada. His wife, Gerberga, fled to Lombardy after Charlemagne annexed this man’s lands.
ANSWER: Carloman I

13.Unlike pyrolysis, this type of reaction requires the presence of oxygen, and this process allows for the isochoric addition of heat during the Otto cycle. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this chemical process in which a hydrocarbon reacts with oxygen to yield water and carbon dioxide. It happens internally in certain engines.
ANSWER: combustion [or burning]
[10] Antoine Lavoisier disproved the existence of this theoretical substance that was thought to be released from wood and metals when they were burned. Oxygen’s original name referred to this material because it burned well.
ANSWER: phlogiston [or phlogisticated air]
[10] Lavoisier confirmed this other scientist’s discovery of hydrogen, which this scientist referred to as “inflammable air.” This scientist also made a calculation of Earth’s density.
ANSWER: Henry Cavendish

14.This composer wrote the music to the ballet Love, the Magician. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this twentieth century composer who also wrote the music to The Three-Cornered Hat. A trip to the Alhambra inspired “In the Generalife,” the first movement of another work by him.
ANSWER: Manuel de Falla
[10] Falla composed a work titled Nights in the Gardens of this country, his homeland. Another composer from here, Isaac Albéniz, composed Iberia, a set of piano pieces inspired by regions around this country.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Spain [or Reino de España]
[10] Although he isn’t Spanish, Édouard Lalo composed a Spanish one of these pieces, even though that work is often classified as a violin concerto. Mahler’s first work of this type is nicknamed “Titan.”
ANSWER: symphony [or Symphonie espagnole; or “Titan” Symphony]

15.Identify the following forms of football, for 10 points each.
[10] This most popular sport in the world is known simply as “football” or “association football” in most places. The American professional league for this sport is the MLS.
ANSWER soccer
[10] This kind of football, whose ball resembles a rugby ball, is played on an ovular pitch with four goalposts on each end. High-flying catches in this game are called “marks.”
ANSWER: Australian rules football
[10] Australian rules football is combined with this other kind of football to create the “international rules” sport. The ball for this sport looks like a volleyball, and players must “solo” or bounce the ball every four steps to advance.
ANSWER: Gaelic football

16.You are on the Trans-Siberian Railway. Name some stuff along the way, for 10 points each.
[10] You make your first stop in Nizhny Novgorod, 461 kilometers and 6 hours from the Yaroslovsky Rail Terminal in Moscow. Before continuing your journey, you must first pass over this river, the longest in Europe.
ANSWER: Volga River
[10] After 5,153 kilometers and three days and four hours on the train, you make a pit stop in Irkutsk, a city near the southern extremity to this lake, the deepest and oldest in the world.
ANSWER: Lake Baikal
[10] Finally, after 9,289 kilometers and six days and four hours, your trip comes to an end in this city, the terminus of the Trans-Siberian Railway in Russia located on the Sea of Japan.
ANSWER: Vladivostok

17.It is preceded by the Three Weeks, a period in which no marriages or haircuts can occur. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this holiday that follows the seventeenth of Tammuz, a period of mourning and fasting for Jews on which the Book of Lamentations is read.
ANSWER: Tisha B’Av
[10] Tisha B’Av commemorates the destruction of two temples, the first of which was built by this wise king, the son of David.
ANSWER: Solomon
[10] Also on the ninth of Av, the Israelites were barred from entering the Promised Land for a generation after Joshua and this man were the only two optimistic spies from the twelve who saw Canaan.
ANSWER: Caleb

18.The protagonist of this novel blackmails Lucetta so she will agree to marry him. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel that begins with the sale of Susan to the sailor Richard Newson by her drunken husband, Michael Henchard.
ANSWER: The Mayor of Casterbridge: The Life and Death of a Man of Character
[10] This author of Jude the Obscure and Tess of the d'Urbervilles also set his The Mayor of Casterbridge in the region of Wessex.
ANSWER: Thomas Hardy
[10] The speaker of this Thomas Hardy poem is sad until the title bird sings “upon the growing gloom,” indicating “some blessed Hope, whereof he knew.”
ANSWER: “The Darkling Thrush”

19.Name some things about the Revolutionary War in New Jersey, for 10 points each.
[10] This battle, at which the Hessians under Johann Rall were surprised on the day after Christmas, occurred after Washington crossed the Delaware.
ANSWER: Battle of Trenton
[10] After this New Jersey battle, Charles Lee was court-marshaled for ordering a retreat. During it, Washington attacked Henry Clinton’s rear guard and Molly Pitcher heroically loaded a cannon.
ANSWER: Battle of Monmouth Courthouse
[10] This American general commanded an outnumbered forward guard at Monmouth and later took Stony Point. After the Revolution, he defeated Little Turtle and Blue Jacket at the Battle of Fallen Timbers.
ANSWER: “Mad” Anthony Wayne

20.This collection’s preface, “To The Reader,” claims that ennui “dreams of scaffolds, puffing his hookah.” For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this collection of Symbolist poetry. Its sections include “Wine,” “Revolt,” “Death,” and “Spleen and Ideal.”
ANSWER: The Flowers of Evil [or Les Fleurs du mal]
[10] This Symbolist French poet included “The Litanies of Satan” in his collection The Flowers of Evil.
ANSWER: Charles Pierre Baudelaire
[10] Baudelaire translated this autobiography of Thomas de Quincey, which describes his seventeen years of addiction to the title drug.
ANSWER: Confessions of an English Opium-Eater

21.Raymond Dart discovered one variety of this species, the Taung Child, in 1924. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this highly sexually dimorphic species, an ancestor of hominids that lived 3.3 to 2.5 million years ago.
ANSWER: Australopithecus africanus
[10] This other species of Australopithecine was responsible for leaving a famous footprint in Laetoli gorge. One member of this species was nicknamed after a famous Beatles song.
ANSWER: Australopithecus afarensis
[10] Finally, this ancestor of humans was the first hominid to exist outside Africa. Its African form was called homo ergaster and this species is named for its ability to walk upright.
ANSWER: Homo erectus
