ACF Fall 2011
Packet by UCSD (Rohan Mehta, Nimish Pratha, Vicky Hwang, Auroni Gupta, and Brian Tsui) and Berkeley (Vivek Bhave)
Edited by Sarah Angelo, Bryan Berend, Matt Bollinger, Matt Hart, Gaurav Kandlikar, and Matt Menard

1.One of this planet’s moons contains distinctive cantaloupe terrain and two candidate cryovolcanoes known as Hili and Mahilani. This planet’s unstable ring system contains three prominent arcs named Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity. Its largest moon was likely captured due to its unusual retrograde orbit. This planet contains winds that approach 2100 km/hr, which are driven by the Great Dark Spot. The discovery of this planet was deduced by Bouvard since a neighboring planet’s orbit was gravitationally perturbed by it. One of its moons is Triton. Voyager 2 visited this planet in 1989 after it visited Uranus. For 10 points, name this planet that is the furthest away from the Sun.
ANSWER: Neptune

2.In one novel by this author, the mysterious Madame takes artwork from the children of a boarding school. The carer Kathy narrates that novel by this author in which her friends Tommy and Ruth both become donors. This man who described children cloned for their organs in Never Let Me Go also wrote a novel in which the protagonist struggles to learn to banter with the American Mr. Faraday. That novel by this author also features a conference hosted by a Nazi sympathizer at his home of Darlington Hall, where the housekeeper Miss Kenton is secretly adored by the butler Stevens. For 10 points, name this Japanese-British author of The Remains of the Day.
ANSWER: Kazuo Ishiguro

3.Early in this man’s career, he and Mingo allies ambushed Jumonville, who was later beheaded by this man’s ally Tanacharison. The French retaliated against this person by ambushing this man’s commanding officer, Braddock, at the Battle of Monongahela. This man warned against the dangers of political parties and foreign alliances in his Farewell Address. With the help of the Marquis de Lafayette, this general forced Lord Cornwallis to surrender at Yorktown. For 10 points, name this first President of the United States.
ANSWER: George Washington

4.One work by this person criticizes the escapist otherworlds and emphasizes the need to focus on personal freedom. In that same work by this person, he wonders how people of different lifestyles would react to being reborn many times over. Another of this philosopher’s first works criticizes the logical order of Socrates and sees the rebirth of society through Wagner’s music. This philosopher argued that “bad conscience” is a consequence of Christian morality . For 10 points, name this philosopher who contrasted the Apollonian and Dionysian in The Birth of Tragedy, wrote about the master and slave moralities in On the Genealogy of Morals, and penned The Gay Science.
ANSWER: Friedrich Wilhelm Nietzsche

5.The inspiration for this work came at a dinner hosted by Edouard Laboulaye. Richard Hunt and General Charles Stone designed and built its base, and it was adapted from its creator’s blueprints for a never-built lighthouse at the entrance of the Suez Canal. Chains lie at this work’s feet, and its internal framework was designed to be flexible by Gustave Eiffel. Located on Bedloe Island, it is engraved with the poem “The New Collusus” by Emma Lazarus and depicts a woman holding a tablet and a torch. Frederic Bartholdi designed, for 10 points, what massive sculpture in New York Harbor as a gift from France?
ANSWER: The Statue of Liberty [or Liberty Enlightening the World]

6.This leader wielded an ancient sword found hidden behind the altar of St. Catherine de Fierbois. This commander was captured while leading a sortie against enemy troops at Compiegne, when Guillaume de Flavy accidentally lifted the drawbridge before this combatant had returned. After being captured by John of Luxembourg, this leader was tried for heresy by Bishop Chaucon. This commander lifted the Siege of Orleans and brought about the coronation of Charles VII before being burnt at the stake. For 10 points, name this female saint of France.
ANSWER: Saint Joan of Arc [or Saint Jeanne d’Arc]

7.After falling in love with his uncle’s wife, Cligès goes to this man for help. This man’s wife was once kidnapped by the son of Bagdemagus, Meleagant. His father-in-law, Leodegrance, gave him a wedding gift that had earlier belonged to his own father. This man lost during a joust against the father of Percival, Pellinore, and broke his sword in the process. This man was raised by Ector, and his foster-brother Kay became his seneschal. The sheath of his sword grants immortality, but he was mortally wounded at the Battle of Camlann by Mordred, his son with his half-sister Morgause. For 10 points, name this husband of Guinevere who headed Camelot and wielded Excalibur.
ANSWER:  King Arthur

8.This composition was humorously dubbed a “piece for orchestra without music” by its composer. Near its end, the trombones play glissandi after a brief switch from C major to E major. The saxophone is prominent during middle sections of this piece, which was begun after its composer abandoned plans to orchestrate Albeniz’s Iberia. Commissioned by the dancer Ida Rubenstein, it features a gradual crescendo while different instruments pass around a theme. That theme is introduced by the flutes after the snare drums begin this piece with an ostinato rhythm that is played throughout. For 10 points, name this composition by Maurice Ravel.
ANSWER: Bolero

9.Integrating the Einstein equation over any volume in three-space, with time constant, gives the Komar variety of this quantity. In particle physics, a sum of squares including two terms for perpendicular momenta gives a transverse version of this quantity.  In the Standard Model, this quantity can be acquired from Nambu-Goldstone bosons through the Higgs Mechanism. The square of the escape velocity of an object is directly proportional to this quantity. According to Newton’s second law, this quantity multiplied by the acceleration equals to the sum of the forces acting on the body. For 10 points, name this quantity that is measured in kilograms. 
ANSWER: mass

10.This figure is the subject of a festival celebrated on the thirteenth night of the new moon, based on a hunter who threw down Bael tree leaves to receive the gift of wisdom from this figure. At his temple Pashupatinath, where he took the form of an antelope, his broken horn is worshiped. When this figure’s two sons competed for a magical mango by racing around the world, one son simply circled around this god and his consort, declaring that they were his world. This figure dances atop the dwarf, Apasmara in the form of Nataraja. This god also beheaded his son by Parvati named Ganesh. For 10 points, name this blue-throated Hindu god known as the Destroyer.
ANSWER: Shiva

11.He’s not Vermeer, but this artist used the same model in his painting Christ in the House of Mary and Martha and a work that shows a boy carrying a melon standing next to the title woman. A figure in a blue sash holds up a mirror into which a naked woman looks in another painting by this artist, who also showed the god of wine surrounded by happy men in Los borrachos, or The Triumph of Bacchus. This artist of Old Woman Cooking Eggs and the Rokeby Venus also depicted himself wearing a red cross in a painting where Philip IV is reflected in a mirror and the Infanta Margarita is surrounded by her attendants. For 10 points, name this Spanish painter of Las Meninas.
ANSWER: Diego Rodríguez de Silva y Velázquez

12.The protagonist of this novel uses a bag of fireflies to allow his brother to see the woman he is courting, leading that brother to be known as the firefly prince. In this work, the ghost of one of the title character’s lovers attacks several of his surviving lovers. Near the end of this work, which was first translated by Arthur Waley, Ukifune joins a convent and refuses to talk to Kaoru. The final chapter of this work is left blank to imply the death of the title character, who marries Aoi but prefers to seduce such women as his stepmother Fujitsubo. For 10 points, name this novel about an amorous courtier written by Lady Murasaki.
ANSWER: The Tale of Genji [or Genji Monogatari]

13.This monarch brought down the noble families of Dacre, Neville, and Percy after they rebelled during the Rising of the North. This ruler was excommunicated by Pius V in the bull Regnans in Excelsis. This ruler promised the House of Commons to reform monopolies shortly before giving the Golden Speech. This ruler’s spymaster, Francis Walsingham, foiled the Babington plot, an attempt to place Mary, Queen of Scots, on the throne. For 10 points, name this virgin queen of England.
ANSWER: Elizabeth I of England [prompt on Elizabeth]

14.This player was upset when officials would not let his prized poodle Pierre into the United Kingdom for his upcoming match at Wimbledon. This tennis player is featured in the music video for the song “Hello” by Martin Solveig and Dragonette, where he argues with a referee over a crucial call. In 2010, he defeated Gilles Simon and Gael Monfils in the finals to help his country win its first Davis Cup. He won 41 straight matches from the start of 2011 until Roger Federer defeated him in the French Open Semis. For 10 points, name this tennis player who won his first Wimbledon title in 2011, a Serbian nicknamed “Djoker.”
ANSWER: Novak Djokovic

15.The protagonist of this novel is arrested when he protects an Armenian girl immediately after he saves a girl from a burning house. After the death of five soldiers in this novel, the protagonist is placated by the folk-wisdom of the peasant Platon Karataev. In this novel, Mary offers starving peasants stored grain but has to be saved from their suspicion by Nicholas Rostov. Helene dies while her husband is away at war in this novel. That husband falls in love with Natasha after Prince Andrew’s death from wounds sustained at the Battle of Borodino. For 10 points, name this Leo Tolstoy novel about Pierre Bezukhov.
ANSWER: War and Peace [or Voyna i Mir]

16.This ruler is said to have visited hell itself in order to build a horrific prison and torture chamber called “Hell-On-Earth.” According to one source, he rose to power after his father’s death by having ninety-nine of his hundred brothers killed. This man sent his son Mahindra as a missionary to Sri Lanka. A sculpture of four lions facing four different directions is known as this man’s “Lion Capital” and is found in Sarnath. In his “Rock Edicts,” this man described feeling remorse after conquering the land of Kalinga and converting to Buddhism.  For 10 points, name this great third emperor of the Mauryans.
ANSWER: Asoka [or Ashoka]

17.The uptake of this compound is inhibited by vesamicol. HC-3 inhibits the synthesis pathway of this compound. Antagonists of this compound include alpha-bungarotoxin. Myasthenia Gravis results when antibodies inhibit this molecule’s nicotinic receptors. Muscarinic receptors of this compound are coupled with G-proteins. Otto Loewi first identified this substance by placing two frog hearts in separate chambers and measuring the effect of stimulating the vegas nerve on their contractile force. For 10 points, name this first compound to be identified as a neurotransmitter, which is released at neuromuscular junctions and is abbreviated AcH.
ANSWER: Acetylcholine [accept AcH before mentioned]

18.This state’s namesake outback contains lakes formed from the streams of the Great Basin, such as the Warner Lakes. Its largest city has an extinct cinder cone volcano named Mount Tabor. A national park in this state has the “Old Man of the Lake,” a tree stump bobbing upright. That lake in this state formed from the collapse of Mount Mazama. In this state, the Deschutes River joins a river at The Dalles. Another tributary of that river forms a basin that contains most of this state’s population. Those rivers in this state are the Willamette and Columbia. The tallest peak in this state is Mount Hood, and it is home to Crater Lake. For 10 points, name this state with capital at Salem.
ANSWER: Oregon

19.In one of this man’s stories, subtitled “A Chapter from an Abortive Romance,” the title character searches for the “unpardonable sin” and transforms into a lime skeleton. This author of “Ethan Brand” also wrote a story in which Baglioni provides Giovanni with an antidote that kills Beatrice, whose breath makes flowers wither. In a novel by this author of “Rappaccini’s Daughter,” Arthur Dimmesdale climbs onto a scaffold to admit that he is Pearl’s father and thus the cause of Hester Prynne’s cloth “A.” For 10 points, name this American author of The Scarlet Letter.
ANSWER: Nathaniel Hawthorne

20.The radiation emitted by the gaseous form of this element penetrates gas clouds at 1420 megahertz and has a characteristic 21cm wavelength. The Fischer-Tropp process entails converting a mixture of carbon monoxide and this element into usable energy. The stretches of bonds of carbon and this element show up at 2850 to 2950 in infrared spectra. When this element acquires a negative charge, it can be used to reduce carbonyl groups and carboxylic acids. This element is often produced when zinc is combined with hydrochloric acid. Some isotopes of this element include tritium and deuterium. For 10 points, name the first element on the periodic table.
ANSWER: Hydrogen [or H-;or H+]

21.This man termed his thoughts “laryngeal activity” after his hypothesis that thinking involved motion of the vocal cords. He found that after taking noddy and sooty terns miles away from their nests, they were able to find their way back. With Harvey Carr, he discovered that rats trained in a maze would continue taking the same path on reflex even if they were placed in a shorter maze, resulting in their running into walls with a “kerplunk” sound. With his assistant Rosalie Rayner, he found that a Santa Claus mask triggered a fear response after he had conditioned fear of a white rat into a young boy. For 10 points, name this psychologist who conducted the “Little Albert” experiment.
ANSWER: John Broadus Watson

Bonuses:

1.The speaker of one poem by this man is washed rather than drowned by the sea. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this French Symbolist author of “The Drunken Boat” who also wrote “O witches, O misery, O hatred, my treasure’s been turned over to you!” in “A Season in Hell.”
ANSWER: Jean-Nicolas Arthur Rimbaud
[10] This lover of Arthur Rimbaud published his works after his death. This man’s poems included “The Song of Autumn” in his own collection Poemes saturniens.
ANSWER: Paul Verlaine
[10] This contemporary of Rimbaud and Verlaine described the title creature awakening from dreams of nymphs in “The Afternoon of a Faun.”
ANSWER: Stephane Mallarme

2.He was American commander during the Vietnam War until he was replaced by General Creighton Abrams in 1968. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this American general who oversaw such events such as the My Lai massacre and the Tet offensive.
ANSWER: William Childs Westmoreland
[10] This Texan assumed the presidency after JFK’s death. He escalated hostilities in Vietnam after the Gulf of Tonkin incident.
ANSWER: Lyndon Baines Johnson
[10] Lyndon Johnson pushed forward domestic reforms in this overarching program, which included such advances as Medicaid and Medicare.
ANSWER: Great Society

3.Answer some questions about mythological characters who try to thwart fate, for 10 points each.
[10] After the death of his friend Enkidu, this Mesopotamian king goes to seek eternal life, only for Utnapishtim to tell him that he will never obtain it.
ANSWER: Gilgamesh
[10] When Dermot of the Love Spot lay dying after being gouged by a boar, this man had the opportunity to save him with healing water from his hands, but this figure refused. This figure was also the father of Oisin
ANSWER: Finn McCool [or Fionn mac Cumhaill; accept close pronunciations; prompt on Finn]
[10] This titan tried to cheat fate by swallowing the children who were destined to overthrow him. Unfortunately for him, the last “child” he swallowed was a rock and not his son Zeus.
ANSWER: Cronus

4.“Shit, they say the best things in life are free” are lyrics from one song on this album. For 10 points each:
[10] Along with “Good Life,” other tracks on this album include “Homecoming” and “Flashing Lights.”
ANSWER: Graduation
[10] Besides recording Graduation, this artist is famous for interrupting Taylor Swift’s VMA speech and remarking that “George Bush doesn’t care about black people.”
ANSWER: Kanye West [or Kanye West]
[10] Kanye produced this artist’s album Finding Forever. This artist wrote the controversial track “A Song for Assata” as well as the lines “Burn a Bush ‘cause for peace he no push no button” in the poem “Letter to the Law,” sparking outrage from conservatives when Michelle Obama invited him to a poetry reading at the White House.
ANSWER: Common [or Common Sense; or Lonnie Rashid Lynn, Jr.]

5.Elie Wiesel’s book Night describes his time in this concentration camp before he was transferred to Buchenwald. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this infamous concentration camp in Poland. In 1944, some of the “Sonderkommandos” here revolted and damaged one of the crematoria.
ANSWER: Auschwitz-Birkenau [or Oswiecim]
[10] The gateway to Auschwitz was inscribed with this notorious three-word German phrase. It roughly means “Work will make you free.”
ANSWER: “Arbeit Macht Frei”
[10] This man oversaw the Gestapo and various concentration camps during World War II.
ANSWER: Heinrich Himmler

6.Identify the following about Mexican literature, for 10 points each.
[10] In this essay collection, Octavio Paz examines many facets of Mexican life as they relate to the title concept, which contributes to thoughts on death, festivals, and identity.
ANSWER: The Labyrinth of Solitude: Life and Thought in Mexico [or El laberinto de la soledad]
[10] This other Mexican author wrote of the title businessman reflecting on his life from his deathbed in The Death of Artemio Cruz, and he included the title character’s search for Pancho Villa in The Old Gringo.
ANSWER: Carlos Fuentes
[10] The title character of Fuentes’ The Old Gringo is a fictionalized version of this American author. This author of The Devil’s Dictionary wrote of the execution of Peyton Farquhar in “An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge.”
ANSWER: Ambrose Gwinnett Bierce

7.In one story this figure exchanged a bowl of stew for the birthright of his brother Esau, and he later tricked his father Isaac into receiving his blessing. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Jewish patriarch who dreamt of a ladder to heaven prior to his marriages to Leah and Rachel.
ANSWER: Jacob
[10] Jacob is also the name of the brother of this figure according to the Book of Mormon. He is the author of the first two books of the Book of Mormon, in which this son of Lehi retrieves some Brass Plates from Laban.
ANSWER: Nephi
[10] Dr. Yakub created white people through selective breeding on Patmos according to this religion founded by W. Fard Muhammad and currently led by Louis Farrakhan.
ANSWER: Nation of Islam

8.The rise of the Romanov dynasty occurred after this period in Russian history. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this period in Russian history that occurred after the death of the last Rurik czar, Feodor I.
ANSWER: Time of Troubles [or Smutnoye Vremya]
[10] After the death of Feodor I, the Zemsky Sobor elected this person to the throne. He was previously regent and brother-in-law to Feodor I.
ANSWER: Boris Godunov
[10] The Time of Troubles may have been started by this Rurik king, who beat his oldest son Ivan Ivanevich to death. That action by this man resulted in Feodor I inheriting the throne.
ANSWER: Ivan the Terrible [or Ivan IV of Russia; Ivan Vasilyevich; or Ivan Grozny; prompt on Ivan]

9.He discussed the role of sympathy in social relationships in his first book, The Theory of Moral Sentiments, but is more famous for his second work. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this economist who argued the benefits of a free market and described the invisible hand in The Wealth of Nations.
ANSWER: Adam Smith
[10] Smith declared that this man, the founder of modern conservatism, was “the only man...who thinks on economic subjects exactly” as he does. He criticized the French Revolution and liberal politics, stating in Thoughts and Details on Scarcity that “to provide for us in our necessities is not in the power of Government.”
ANSWER: Edmund Burke
[10] The man who proposed this namesake law publicized Adam Smith’s views, though he disagreed with some of them. This law was interpreted by John Maynard Keynes to mean, “Supply creates its own demand.”
ANSWER: Say’s Law

10. A deficiency of this hormone causes the Kallmann syndrome. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this hormone that upregulates the production of leutenizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone in the posterior pituitary.
ANSWER: gonadotropin releasing hormone [or GnRH; or luteinizing hormone releasing hormone; or LHRH]
[10] GnRH is produced in this area of the brain which houses the superchiasmatic nucleus and maintains homeostasis. The name of this structure refers to the fact that it sits under another structure in the diencephalon.
ANSWER: hypothalamus 
[10] The hypothalamus also releases this hormone, which stimulates the production of milk. It takes part in a notable positive feedback loop, as the stretching of the cervix it causes stimulates this hormone’s production.
ANSWER: oxytocin

11.When he extended his hand out to John Foster Dulles, Dulles refused to shake this person’s hand. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this premier under Mao Zedong who attended the 1954 Geneva Conference.
ANSWER: Zhou Enlai
[10 Another of Mao’s underlings, this legendary commander compiled the Little Red Book. However, after supposedly attempting a coup against Mao, he mysteriously died in a plane crash in Mongolia.
ANSWER: Lin Biao
[10] Lin Biao advised Mao to return to power and initiate this period, meant to reform the Communist party. During this period, the Red Guards were ordered to smash the “Four Olds,” and party members like Liu Shaoqi were purged.
ANSWER: The Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution [or Wenhua Dageming]

12.This poem contains heroic couplets such as “Cease, then, nor order imperfection name: Our proper bliss depends on what we blame.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poem that opens with “The Design,” an introduction addressed to Lord Bolingbroke. This work is paired with its author’s Moral Epistles and seeks to “vindicate the ways of God to man.”
ANSWER: Essay on Man
[10] In this mock epic by the author of Essay on Man, Lord Petre commits the title offense against Belinda, despite the best efforts of her protective sylphs.
ANSWER: The Rape of the Lock
[10] This English satirist wrote Essay on Man and The Rape of the Lock. He warns that “a Fool might once himself alone expose” in Essay on Criticism.
ANSWER: Alexander Pope

13.In point set topology, this property of sets is preserved under arbitrary union or finite intersection. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this kind of set where every point is an interior point. Informally, it is a set which has no boundary points, and intervals of this type are usually written using parentheses rather than square brackets.
ANSWER: open
[10] A function has this property if this preimage of every open set is open. In the more familiar definition, a function has this property if the value of the function at each point is equal to the function's limit at that point.
ANSWER: continuous
[10] Another topological property preserved by continuous functions is this one, conditions for which are given by the Heine-Borel Theorem. A set has this property if every open cover has a finite subcover.
ANSWER: compact

14.This woman was inspired by Greek mythology to create such performances as Cave of the Heart and Clytemnestra. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this twentieth century dancer who commissioned Appalachian Spring and founded a namesake school of contemporary dance. Time Magazine named her “Dancer of the Century” in 1998.
ANSWER: Martha Graham
[10] A controversial biography of Martha Graham was written by this other American dancer and choreographer. This woman choreographed such ballets as Rodeo and Fall River Legend as well as the musical Oklahoma!
ANSWER: Agnes de Mille [prompt on partial name]
[10] Many of Agnes de Mille’s choreographed ballets were for the American Ballet Theatre, which is located in this city. Another ballet company located here performs at the Lincoln Center.
ANSWER: New York City

15.After its founder’s death, this philosophy was continued by people such as Leonard Peikoff. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this philosophy that claims that the “trader principle” is the only rational ethical principle and the principle of justice.
ANSWER: Objectivism
[10] This Russian founder of Objectivism wrote works such as “The Nature of Government,” but might be more famous for writing a book about Howard Roark called The Fountainhead. 
ANSWER Ayn Rand [or Alissa Zinovievna Rosenbaum]
[10] Ayn Rand argued for the validity of egoist ethics and rejected altruism in a work titled for the The Virtue of  this trait.
ANSWER: selfishness

16.Ideal ones have infinite CMRR and infinite open-loop gain. To analyze these however, it is often said that their inputs draw no current and that the voltage difference between the inputs is zero. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these electronic blocks that can be inverting or non-inverting, depending on where resistors are put. 
ANSWER: op-amps [or operational amplifiers]
[10] To find the equivalent one of these circuit elements when individual elements are in parallel, simply add their namesake quantities, which can be calculated by dividing the charge on their plates by the voltage between them for the parallel plate kind.
ANSWER: capacitors
[10] These materials, when placed between the plates of a capacitor, increase the capacitance by reducing the internal electric field. 
ANSWER: dielectric materials

17.In this play, one character constantly rails against mendacity. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this play in which Maggie tries to secure an inheritance from the dying Big Daddy for herself and her alcoholic husband Brick.
ANSWER: Cat on a Hot Tin Roof
[10] This author of Cat on a Hot Tin Roof created Tom and Laura Wingfield in The Glass Menagerie.
ANSWER: Tennessee Lanier Williams
[10] In this Tennessee Williams play, the defrocked minister Larry Shannon leads a bus tour to Mexico, where he meets the aging artist Hannah Jelkes.
ANSWER: The Night of the Iguana

18.Answer some questions about paintings with something in common, for 10 points each.
[10] A crescent moon is seen in the top right corner of this painting by Vincent van Gogh that depicts the village of Saint-Remy and a large cypress tree.
ANSWER: The Starry Night [or De Sterrennacht]
[10] A moon also appears in the top right corner of this artist’s The Sleeping Gypsy. This French artist was nicknamed “Le Douanier” and is known for his exotic scenes such as The Dream and The Snake Charmer.
ANSWER: Henri Rousseau
[10] This Spanish Surrealist painter of Harlequin’s Carnival also painted Dog Barking at the Moon, which has a ladder on the left and strange-shaped moon.
ANSWER: Joan Miró

19.This form of spectroscopy relies on electromagnetic radiation with wavelength longer than visible light, and carbonyl peaks in this form of spectroscopy is found between 1700m and 1750 wavenumbers. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this form of spectroscopy. -OH peaks in this form of spectroscopy have a distinctive broad stretch at about 3100 wavenumbers.
ANSWER: infrared spectroscopy [or IR spectroscopy]
[10] A change in this property of a molecule must occur for it to show up on an IR spectrum. This property is described as the product of the magnitude of two charges and the distance between them, and is measured in debye.
ANSWER: electric dipole moment [do not accept “magnetic dipole moment”]
[10] Stretches between 1300 and 900 nanometers are said to be in this region of an IR spectrum. This region gets its name because compounds have very unique stretches in this region.
ANSWER: fingerprint region

20.This symphony and its composer’s “American” string quartet were both composed on the same trip to Spillville, Iowa. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this symphony in E minor whose Largo movement features an English horn. It was influenced by African American spirituals such as “Swing Low, Sweet Chariot.”
ANSWER: “New World” Symphony [or Symphony “From the New World”; or Symphony No.9 by Dvorak]
[10] The New World Symphony was composed by Antonín Dvorak, who hails from this modern-day country. Other composers from here include Leoš Janácek and Bedrich Smetana, the latter of whom is buried in Prague.
ANSWER: Czech Republic [or Ceská republika; do not accept “Czechoslovakia”]
[10] Smetana is known for the collection of six symphonic poems Má vlast, which includes this piece that is often performed on its own. It opens with flutes representing the sources of the title river.
ANSWER: The Moldau [or Die Moldau; or Vltava]

21.This region’s major population hubs include Kobe, Kyoto, and Osaka. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this western region of Japan, as opposed to the eastern, or Kantou, region.
ANSWER: Kansai region [or Kinki region]
[10] This city near the Kyoto-Kobe-Osaka metropolis contains lots of tame deer that roam around its many temples. Todai-ji, 7 other temples, and a forest make up the UNESCO World Heritage site of this city.
ANSWER: Nara
[10] While traveling on the Shinkansen back north, you might stop at this major hub of the Kantou region just north of Yokohama. It contains places such as Ginza, Shinjuku, and Akibahara. It’s also the current capital of Japan.
ANSWER: Tokyo
