ACF Fall 2011
Packet by Macomb High School (Tristan Willey)
Edited by Sarah Angelo, Bryan Berend, Matt Bollinger, Matt Hart, Gaurav Kandlikar, and Matt Menard

1.The activation of these cells involves interactions between the Zap-70 kinase and the ITAM regions of their CD3 receptors. One class of these cells carries out its function by releasing the enzyme perforin. These cells recognize peptide segments transported by MHC proteins. As with antibodies, V(D)J recombination affects the development of these cells. These cells are subjected to positive and negative selection during their development. These cells are classified into CD4 or CD8 types, and these cells develop in the thymus. For 10 points, name these leukocytes which come in ‘helper’ and ‘cytotoxic’ varieties.
ANSWER: T cells [or helper T cells; or cytotoxic T cells]

2.Units in this game say such phrases as “I’m bringing the pain and the pizza in 30 minutes or it’s free” and “What’s your sign, baby? Mine’s explosives!” Jorium and Terrazine are important in one part of its campaign. Donny Vermillion gets placed in a mental institution resulting in Kate Lockwell taking over his news program in this game. In this game, the player is given the option to side with either Nova Terra or Gabriel Tosh, which determines whether they will be able to train spectres or ghosts. Its story ends with a de-infested Queen of Blades being carried off by Jim Raynor. For 10 points, name this 2010 Blizzard game, the successor to Brood War.
ANSWER: StarCraft II: Wings of Liberty [or Wings of Liberty; do not accept “StarCraft”]

3.One side in this battle fought to gain control of a high point known as The Dead Man. One commander in this battle maintained supply lines and reinforcements along La Voie Sacrée, or the Sacred Way. Erich von Falkenhayn planned to “bleed France white” during this battle. This battle popularized General Robert Nivelle's phrase "They shall not pass.” Due to this battle, Philippe Petain became a national hero in France. It occurred at roughly the same time as the Battle of the Somme. For 10 points, name this ten month long battle in World War I that resulted in over 750,000 casualties as the Germans tried to capture a French fortress.
ANSWER: Battle of Verdun

4.In thermal equilibrium, this quantity for every particle is equal to three halves times Boltzmann’s constant times temperature. In special relativity, this quantity is equal to the gamma factor minus one times mass times the speed of light squared. Multiplying one-half times the moment of inertia and the square of the angular velocity gives the rotational form of this quantity. Along with momentum, this quantity is conserved in elastic collisions, and subtracting potential energy from this quantity gives the Lagrangian of the system. For 10 points, name this physical quantity that is equal to one half times mass times velocity squared.

ANSWER: kinetic energy

5.Rowland Hazard was a severe alcoholic who was a patient of this psychologist, and this psychologist noted that spirituality could cure alcoholism when all else failed. Apparently unrelated events that seem to occur together meaningfully constitute what this man called synchronicity. He wrote The Red Book, and the Myers-Briggs Test was heavily influenced by this man's work Psychological Types. The shadow, anima, animus, and persona are types of one of this man's concepts, and he posited that mankind has a collection of shared experiences. For 10 points, name this Swiss psychologist who developed the ideas of archetypes and the collective unconscious.
ANSWER: Carl Gustav Jung

6.The secretary Filip Fabricius gained the title “von Hohenfall” for his role in this event. It was a response to a violation of the Letter of Majesty in the dispersal of an assembly convoked by the Defensors. During this event, Count von Thurn led a group of fellow nobles into the Hradschin council room. Certain participants in this event claimed they had been saved by Churmusian angels, although they were probably saved by piles of horse manure. This action helped lead to the Thirty Years’ War. For 10 points, name this event in which Catholic officials in Bohemia were thrown out of a window.
ANSWER: Second Defenestration of Prague [prompt on descriptions before the end]

7.A couple of copper and this element is used to convert alkenes into cyclic molecules in the Simmons-Smith reaction. An amalgam of this element is used to reduce compounds with carbonyl carbons to alkanes in a reaction named for Clemmenson. The most common ore of this element is sphalerite. This element is coordinated by amino acids in a protein motif called this element’s finger. The hot-dip method is often used to carry out a process involving the electrodeposition of this metal onto another to prevent rusting. For 10 points, name this metal used to coat iron in galvanization with symbol Zn.
ANSWER: zinc

8.This story was read by Ashoke Ganguli shortly before the train he was riding derailed. In this story, a character saves money by not drinking tea at night and walking on his toes to keep his shoes from wearing out. That character in this story dies of a fever and cannot rest until his ghost takes an item from a prominent personage who had scolded him. This story's title object was made by the drunk Petrovitch for a man who eagerly copies documents, and it was stolen on the way back from a party. Dostoyevsky said, “We all came from” this work. For 10 points, name this Nikolai Gogol short story about Akaky Akakievich's title garment.
ANSWER: “The Overcoat” [or “The Cloak”; or “Shinel”]

9.The demon Hiranyaksha was defeated by a god in this form. While disguised in this form, the mortal Ottar served as a goddess’ mount. In addition to Varaha and Hildisvini, examples of these creatures include Saehrimnir, which is killed each night by the cook Andhrimnir and fed to the inhabitants of Valhalla. Brokkr and Eitri crafted one of these for Freyr named for its golden features. In Greek mythology, one of these creatures was slain in a snowdrift by Heracles, and another was sent by Artemis to punish Oeneus before it was slain by Atalanta and Meleager. For 10 points, name these creatures that include Gullinbursti, the Erymanthian one, and the Calydonian one.
ANSWER: boars [prompt on pigs]

10.Philosopher W. H. Whinfield was the dedicatee of this man’s Serenade for Strings in E minor. He collaborated with his friend August Jaeger on an oratorio that depicts a man’s journey through Purgatory. Jaeger was also the inspiration for the “Nimrod” section of a work that contains musical “portraits” of this composer’s friends. In addition to the Dream of Gerontius, this man also wrote a set of variations on a “hidden” tune and a march which contains the tune “Land of Hope and Glory,” which is commonly played at graduations. For 10 points, name this English composer of the Enigma Variations and Pomp and Circumstance Marches.
ANSWER: Edward William Elgar

11.In one poem by this author, the speaker plans to use a “scrofulous French novel on grey paper with blunt type” to damn the soul of a man he despises. This author of “Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister” wrote of a woman who “put my arm about her waist, and made her smooth white shoulder bare” in another poem. Besides that poem in which the speaker strangles a woman with her hair, this man wrote a work in which the speaker gave the gift of a “nine-hundred-years-old name.” In that work by this man, the title character had a heart “too soon made glad.” For 10 points, name this poet of the dramatic monologues “Porphyria's Lover” and “My Last Duchess.”
ANSWER: Robert Browning

12.This thinker wrote a work divided into ten "walks" during which he reflects on his life. A novel by this author sees St. Preux come back into the life of Julie d'Etange. This author posited that pity is the second motivational principle of the human soul. Another book by this author of Julie, or the New Heloise includes the character Sophia and claims that cultivating natural tendencies should be the goal of education. He distinguishes between the natural and political kinds of the title concept in Discourse on Inequality, writing that "Man is born free; and everywhere he is in chains." For 10 points name this French enlightenment philosopher who wrote Emile and The Social Contract.
ANSWER: Jean-Jacques Rousseau

13.This man’s works in Columbus, Indiana included a hexagonal building with a tall spire on top called the North Christian Church and the Miller House. He used reinforced concrete for the “spine” of a building that is nicknamed “The Whale.” In addition to Yale’s Ingalls Rink, this man also designed a building with a curved roof suspended by diagonal supports; that work also features a pagoda-like control tower. This designer of MIT’s Kresge Auditorium and the main terminal at Dulles Airport is best known for designing the tallest monument in the United States along the Mississippi River. For 10 points, name this Finnish-American architect of St. Louis’s Gateway Arch.
ANSWER: Eero Saarinen

14.In this work, a doctor with a mysterious past thinks that he will be lynched after he refuses to go to the scene of a fatal accident. One character takes his grandson out into the woods to sacrifice a lamb in a four-part section of this work. The life of Wing Biddlebaum, who moved and changed his name after being accused of molesting his students, is the subject of this work’s section “Hands.” In this work, the schoolteacher Kate Swift is seen praying naked through a hole in a stained glass window by Reverend Curtis Hartman. For 10 points, name this set of stories connected by the reporter George Willard, a book about small town life by Sherwood Anderson.
ANSWER: Winesburg, Ohio: A Group of Tales of Ohio Small-Town Life

15.It isn’t Purim, but on this holiday al ha-nissim is added to a prayer. On this holiday, many Hasidim recite Psalm 91 seven times after a certain action. The blessings L’hadlik neir and she-hekhianu are given on this holiday. The songs Hanerot Halalu and Ma'oz Tzur, or “Rock of Ages,” are sung on this holiday. “Gelt” is a traditional gift of money on this holiday, which begins on the twenty-fifth of Kislev. The letters nun, gimel, hei, and shin are on an object used on this holiday. Celebrating events from the book of Maccabees, it commemorates a day’s worth of oil lasting eight. For 10 points, name this Jewish holiday during which people spin dreidels and light the Menorah.
ANSWER: Hanukah [or Chanukah; prompt on festival of lights]

16.A woman holding a striped garment is surprised by a man in a doorway in one work by this artist, whose series for the Madame du Barry is the subject of an August 2011 book by Colin Bailey. This artist of The Stolen Kiss included The Pursuit and The Lover Crowned in his cycle The Progress of Love. Another work by him depicts a man with a stick sneaking behind a woman with a cloth over her eyes. That work, Blind Man’s Bluff, shares the same semi-erotic theme as his work showing a man looking up the skirt of a woman in a pink dress. That woman is high above the ground because she is on the title object. For 10 points, name this French Rococo painter of The Swing.
ANSWER: Jean-Honoré Fragonard [or The Stolen Kiss before “this artist”]

17.It is not the parathyroid, but the Chief cells of this organ release zymogens that are activated by the secretions of its parietal cells. Patients of pernicious anemia have low levels of this organ’s intrinsic factor, which allows for the absorbtion of vitamin B12. The part of this organ that extends past its upper opening is referred to as its fundus, and the mucosa and submucosa layers of this organ are folded into rugae. This organ produces chyme, which travels through the pyloric sphincter into the duodenum, and enzymes abundant in this organ include pepsin. For 10 points, name this organ that lies between the esophagus and the small intestine.
ANSWER: stomach

18.This leader employed the architect al-Sahili to build a mosque out of burnt bricks. He brought the salt-producing Taghaza and the gold-producing Wangara under the control of his empire. Under this man's rule, the Sankore Madrasah was constructed. This man annexed the city of Timbuktu and made it a center of learning. This ruler ruined the economy of Cairo by going on an extravagant trip, during which he was preceded by 500 slaves bearing golden staffs. For 10 points, name this powerful emperor of Mali who went on an extravagant Hajj.
ANSWER: Mansa Kankan Musa [or Musa I; or Gonga Musa; or Musa the Magnificent]

19.In one work by this man, a senator and his son work to convince the title character to sign a false affidavit so that an innocent black man will go to jail. In a novel by this author of The Respectful Prostitute, the protagonist spends many days at the library with the Self-Taught Man and abandons his biography of the Marquis de Rollebon in order to write a novel and perhaps cure the title feeling. This author of Nausea also wrote a play in which a man learns that one of his companions drowned her child and the other was killed by her lesbian lover. His time with Inez and Estelle leads one of this author’s characters to say, “hell is other people.” For 10 points, name this author of No Exit.
ANSWER: Jean-Paul Sartre

20.Members of this group raided a shed called the Lapidarium to steal a block of marble intended for the Washington Monument. This party's supporters perpetrated the Bloody Monday riots in Louisville. This party dominated 1854 state elections in Massachusetts. This party grew out of a secret organization called the Order of the Star Spangled Banner. In 1856, this party nominated Millard Fillmore as its candidate for President. For 10 points, name this nineteenth century American political party that was hostile to Catholic immigrants.
ANSWER: Know Nothing Party [or American Party; or Know Nothings]

21.Mount Spurr can be found in this state, as can the Colville River. This state features the Saint Elias Range and the Wrangell Mountains, and it contains the Copper River. The 1912 eruption of Novarupta formed a region in this state with numerous fumaroles called the Valley of Ten Thousand Smokes. Large islands in this state include Umnak and Unimak, and its other islands include the Alexander Archipelago. It contains the two largest cities in the U.S. by area with Sitka and its capital. A diphtheria epidemic in 1925 happened around its city of Nome. For 10 points, identify this U.S. state that is home to cities such as Fairbanks and Anchorage.
ANSWER: Alaska

Bonuses:

1.The host of this show has downed ridiculous meals such as a meter long bratwurst, a two-gallon ice cream sundae, and a six-pound frittata. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this show that features host Adam Richman touring the nation to discover the greatest chowdown joints and take on the most legendary food challenges.
ANSWER: Man v. Food [or Man v. Food Nation; or MVF]
[10] Man v. Food is a show on this channel that also features Bizarre Foods with Andrew Zimmern, Bert the Conqueror, and Sand Masters.
ANSWER: Travel Channel
[10] Also on the Travel Channel is this show that follows the host as he samples food and culture around the world and who should probably call beforehand.
ANSWER: Anthony Bourdain: No Reservations

2.The Seikan Tunnel connects this island to Honshu. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this northernmost of Japan's main islands. Its namesake prefecture is Japan's largest and its capital and largest city is Sapporo.
ANSWER: Hokkaido [or Ezo; or Yezo; or Yesso]
[10] This large, Russian-controlled island north of Hokkaido has been central to territorial disputes between Japan and Russia. This island was home to many Ainu who fled to Hokkaido when the Soviets gained complete control of this island after World War II.
ANSWER: Sakhalin [or Saghalien; or Karafuto; or Kuye]
[10] Separating the Sea of Okhotsk from the rest of the Pacific Ocean are these islands that have also been a point of dispute between Japan and Russia. They stretch from northeast of Hokkaido to Kamchatka.
ANSWER: Kuril Islands [or Chishima retto]

3.One work by this sculptor depicts a man holding an orb upon which a miniature Nike stands, and that subject’s sister is depicted as Venus Victrix in another work by this man. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this neoclassical sculptor of Napoleon as Mars the Peacemaker who also created a statue of The Three Graces and Psyche Revived by Cupid's Kiss.
ANSWER: Antonio Canova 
[10] Canova also created two marble versions of this Greek hero holding the head of Medusa, a monster that he slew. Benvenuto Cellini also created the same scene, but made his out of bronze.
ANSWER: Perseus [or Perseus with the Head of Medusa]
[10] Cellini’s last work was one of these objects made of black and white marble. The Santa Maria Novella houses a wooden one by Brunelleschi, who supposedly made it after being challenged by Donatello.
ANSWER: crucifix

4.A simplex is a generalization of one of these shapes to more than two dimensions. For 10 points each:
[10] Heron's formula can find the area of one of these polygons that has interior angles adding up to 180 degrees.
ANSWER: triangles [or 3-gon; or trigon]
[10] A triangle's three medians meet at this point. It represents the triangle's center of mass.
ANSWER: centroid
[10] This theorem states the conditions under which segments drawn from a triangle's vertices to the opposite sides will intersect at a single point.
ANSWER: Ceva's Theorem

5.One example of this form is “Another year is gone / a travel hat on my head / straw sandals on my feet.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Japanese poetic form consisting of seventeen syllables that is frequently used for poems about nature.
ANSWER: haiku
[10] This haiku master wrote the previous example, as well as one about a frog jumping into a pond and causing the sound of water.
ANSWER: Matsuo Basho [or Matsuo Munefusa]
[10] “Even a thatched hut / May change with a new owner / Into a doll's house” is part of this Basho travelogue that tells of a trip from Edo to Oku with his companion Sora.
ANSWER: The Narrow Road to the Deep North [or The Narrow Road to the Interior; or The Narrow Road to Oku or Oku no Hosomichi; or Narrow Road to a Far Province; or The Narrow Road Through the Provinces; accept translations with “of” instead of “to”]

6.A woman on the right side of this painting pours a jar of water onto the floor because she is looking at the central event. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this painting which sees a turban-wearing king and his guests look on in astonishment as a mysterious hand begins writing illuminated letters on the wall.
ANSWER: Belshazzar’s Feast
[10] This other painting by the artist of Belshazzar’s Feast depicts Captain Frans Banning Cocq and a bunch of civic guards meeting in the street. Despite its name, it actually depicts a daytime scene.
ANSWER: The Night Watch [or De Nachtwacht]
[10] Both Belshazzar’s Feast and The Night Watch were painted by this Dutch painter of the seventeenth century also known for his several self-portraits, some of them with his wife Saskia.
ANSWER: Rembrandt Harmenszoon van Rijn [or Rembrandt van Rijn]

7.Weiss postulated that materials exhibiting this phenomenon have magnetic domains which align in the direction of the magnetic field, and those domains are separated by Bloch walls. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this magnetic phenomenon exhibited under the Curie temperature, which is observed in metals like cobalt and iron.
ANSWER: ferromagnetism [accept word forms like ferromagnets or ferromagnetic]
[10] When ferromagnets are placed in alternating magnetic fields, their magnetism follows a loop named for this phenomenon. In general, this term refers to the lag between a change in an external force and a body’s response.
ANSWER: hysterisis
[10] Ferromagnetism can be explained by the Ising model, which uses interactions between this property of nearest neighbors. Fermions have half integer values for this property, which was studied in the Stern-Gerlach experiment.
ANSWER: spin

8.In this play, Mary’s addiction can be traced to her husband’s hiring of a cheap but inept doctor. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this play that begins with the Tyrone family at breakfast and follows arguments over Jamie’s alcoholism, James’ stinginess, and Edmund’s tuberculosis.
ANSWER: Long Day’s Journey into Night
[10] This author based Long Day’s Journey into Night in part on his own life. This man also described the denizens of Harry Hope’s saloon, including the ex-anarchist Larry and the former drinker Hickey, in The Iceman Cometh.
ANSWER: Eugene O’Neill
[10] Eugene O’Neill insisted that a black actor play Brutus, the title character of this play, in which the former Pullman porter rules over the natives of an island and convinces them he can only be killed by a silver bullet.
ANSWER: The Emperor Jones

9.The Revolving Door ad was part of this man's campaign for president. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this U.S. president who sent troops to overthrow Manuel Noriega's regime in Panama. He also was president during Operation Desert Storm.
ANSWER: George Herbert Walker Bush [or Bush 41 and other things that distinguish him from his son]
[10] That Revolving Door ad attacked this 1988 Democratic nominee for president and governor of Massachusetts.
ANSWER: Michael Stanley Dukakis
[10] An anti-Dukakis attack ad focused on this murderer who was granted a weekend furlough while Dukakis was governor. He escaped during the furlough and went to Maryland and raped and tortured a woman and her fiancée.
ANSWER: Willie Horton [or William R. Horton]

10.Change in this quantity can be approximated as heat divided by average temperature. For 10 Points each:
[10] Name this quantity that is always increasing according to the second law of thermodynamics.
ANSWER: entropy [prompt on "S"]
[10] For a system of identical molecules, this refers to each possible distribution of its molecules. Entropy is proportional to the logarithm of the number of these.
ANSWER: microstates
[10] This man's namesake entropy equation relates entropy of a gas to the number of microstates corresponding to its configuration, and his namesake constant is the proportionality constant which relates entropy and number of microstates.
ANSWER: Ludwig Eduard Boltzmann

11.In this play, the Logician attempts to explain the appearance of the title creature using a syllogism. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this play in which only the drunkard Berenger refuses to become the title creature, even after his beloved Daisy transforms.
ANSWER: Rhinoceros
[10] The Fire Chief asks for the title character of this play in which the Smiths are visited by the Martins, who discover they are married by discussing such odd coincidences as having spouses by each other’s names.
ANSWER: The Bald Soprano
[10] This Absurdist playwright of Rhinoceros and The Bald Soprano also described the Old Woman frantically trying to arrange the title objects for invisible guests in his play The Chairs.
ANSWER: Eugene Ionesco [or Eugen Ionescu]

12.He began his religious conversion following an injury sustained in the 1521 Battle of Pamplona. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this man whose several months spent praying many hours per day in a cave in Manresa serve as the basis for his Spiritual Exercises.
ANSWER: St. Ignatius of Loyola
[10] Ignatius of Loyola was the founder of this religious order whose motto is Ad Maiorem Dei Gloriam. Other notable members of this order include Matteo Ricci, Robert Bellarmine, and Aloysius Gonzaga. 
ANSWER: Jesuits [or Society of Jesus]
[10] Along with Peter Favre, this man was one of the earliest companions of Ignatius of Loyola, and after the formation of the Society of Jesus, this man performed extensive missionary work in India and throughout Asia.
ANSWER: St. Francis Xavier

13.One form of this process results in two classes of N-linked oligosaccharides, one of which has many mannose residues. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this form of post-translational modification by which carbohydrates are attached onto functional groups of other larger molecules. One of these processes occurs in an organelle is composed of cisternae.
ANSWER: N-linked glycosylation [or O-linked glycosylation]
[10] O-linked glycosylation takes place in this organelle, which is named for an Italian biologist. This organelle modifies molecules for secretion, and protiens synthesized on the rough ER and transported to this organelle.
ANSWER: Golgi body [accept synonyms for ‘body’ such as ‘apparatus’ or ‘complex.’]
[10] Two answers required. The face of the Golgi body closest to the endoplasmic reticulum and the one facing away are denoted by these two terms, which are also used to describe the structures of alkenes.
ANSWER: cis and trans [accept in any order]

14.Voltaire once quipped that this state had none of the qualities that made up its name. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this collection of German states, such as Bohemia, Saxony, and Prussia, which paid fealty to a common emperor. In practice, however, power usually devolved to the local princes.
ANSWER: Holy Roman Empire [or Heiliges Romisches Reich; or Imperium Romanum Sacrum]
[10] The Holy Roman Emperor was chosen by a vote from these seven men, three of whom were archbishops and four of whom were secular princes.
ANSWER: prince-electors [or Kurfursten]
[10] The precise makeup of the seven electors was set down in this 1356 decree, sponsored by Emperor Charles IV.
ANSWER: Golden Bull of 1356

15.Name some Platonic dialogues, for 10 points each.
[10] In this dialogue, the title figure prepares a way for Socrates to escape Athens, but Socrates declares that he would rather give up his life than respond to injustice with further injustice.
ANSWER: Crito
[10] In this other dialogue, Anytus, Meletus, and Lycon are Socrates' accusers in his trial. Socrates gives a formal speech defending himself against charges of corrupting the youth and not respecting the gods.
ANSWER: The Apology of Socrates [or Apologia]
[10] Socrates and the title figure of this dialogue attempt to define piety, but it ends at an impasse. Its suggested definitions include that which is loved by the gods, and that reverence is a part of justice.
ANSWER: Euthyphro

16.The third movement of this work uses an English horn to depict the singing of a bird, and its last section is meant to depict the return of the title hero. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this work that is sometimes called “Four Legends from the Kalevala.” Its most famous section is its third movement, which is called The Swan of Tuonela.
ANSWER:  Lemminkäinen Suite
[10] The Lemminkäinen Suite is a work by this man, who also completed seven symphonies before destroying sketches of an eighth. He is also known for Valse Triste and a work written in response to Russian censorship of his home country.
ANSWER: Jean Sibelius [or Johan Julius Christian Sibelius]
[10] Sibelius is probably the most important composer from this country, which is also the home of the Grammy-winning Kaija Saariaho.  You may know it better as being a northern country with its capital at Helsinki.
ANSWER: Republic of Finland [or Suomi; or Republiken Finland; or Suomen tasavalta]

17.The reign of this event’s namesake emperor saw many social and political reforms in Japan. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this event that ended the Tokugawa Shogunate and gave power back to the central government.
ANSWER: Meiji Restoration [or Meiji Ishin; accept "revolution," "renewal," and other reasonable replacements for Restoration]
[10] The Meiji Restoration ended the han system, under which these warlords held most of the power over their feudal domains. They were forced to give their authority back to the central government.
ANSWER: daimyo
[10] The first major testing of the Meiji emperor was this rebellion of former samurai. It was led by Saigo Takamori, and it was named after a clan from Kyushu.
ANSWER: Satsuma Rebellion

18.This god killed his sister Coyolxauhqui and put her head in the sky, where it became the moon. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Aztec god of war who sprang fully formed from his mother's womb to defeat his sister and 400 brothers. His name means “Hummingbird on the left.”
ANSWER: Huitzilopochtli
[10] This earth goddess and mother of Huitzilopochtli is depicted wearing a skirt made of snakes. In many accounts, she is shamefully impregnated by a ball of feathers.
ANSWER: Coatlicue [or Teteoinan]
[10] In some versions of that story, Coatlicue’s children by the ball of feathers are Xolotl and this twin brother of his. The Aztecs thought Hernán Cortes was this feathered serpent god.
ANSWER: Quetzalcoatl

19.Name the following works of Samuel Beckett, for 10 points each.
[10] This play's two main characters Hamm and Clov are unable to stand and sit, respectively. Its only other characters are Hamm's parents Nagg and Nell, who both lack legs and live in trashcans.
ANSWER: Endgame [or Fin de Partie]
[10] In this play, Pozzo's servant Lucky gives a monologue that entertains Vladimir and Estragon as they anticipate the title character, who never arrives.
ANSWER: Waiting for Godot [or En Attendant Godot]
[10] In this Beckett play, the title character listens to recordings of his younger self on his sixty-ninth birthday and remembers such events as the deaths of his parents and his relationship with Bianca.
ANSWER: Krapp's Last Tape

20.This monarch's reign saw the passage of the Act of Union between England and Scotland. For 10 Points each:
[10] Name this British monarch who named the North American theater of the War of the Spanish Succession.
ANSWER: Anne of England
[10] Anne's Lady of the Bedchamber was a member of this family named Sarah who tried to manipulate her. This was the family of the first and the recent Dukes of Marlborough.
ANSWER: Churchill
[10] Anne was the last queen of this house, which succeeded the Tudors and held power throughout most of the seventeenth century.
ANSWER: House of Stuart

21.This woman was killed while walking back to her home at 3 o’clock in the morning in Queens, New York. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this woman who screamed and pleaded for help as she was stabbed to death while 38 witnesses failed to intervene.
ANSWER: Kitty Genovese [or Catherine Susan Genovese]
[10] The Kitty Genovese case is an example of this effect where individuals do not offer aid to those in need when other people are present.
ANSWER: bystander effect
[10] These two social psychologists were the first to research the Kitty Genovese murder. They also conducted an experiment that concluded that the bystander effect stems partially from social loafing, the fact that individuals exert less effort as group size grows. Name either.
ANSWER: John M. Darley or Bibb Latané [accept either]
