ACF Fall 2011
Packet by Northwestern A (Dan Donohue, Cory Haala, & Anant Shah)
Edited by Sarah Angelo, Bryan Berend, Matt Bollinger, Matt Hart, Gaurav Kandlikar, and Matt Menard

1.This work claims that the Declaration of Independence constituted a “promissory note” which came back marked “insufficient funds.” While delivering this speech, its author was about to sit down when a cry from Mahalia Jackson prompted him to give an impromptu sermon. This speech begins by noting that “Five score years ago, a great American…signed the Emancipation Proclamation.” It cries “Let freedom ring from Stone Mountain of Georgia!” and concludes “Thank God Almighty, we are free at last!” For 10 points, name this speech delivered during the March on Washington by Martin Luther King.
ANSWER: “I Have a Dream” Speech

2.One of this thinker’s works presents the Parable of Palace to illustrate those who have come close to certainty in spiritual matters. Another of his works outlines thirteen principles, including the incorporeality of God and the coming of the Messiah. The former work analyzes Ezekiel’s vision of a chariot, or merkavah, to show that Jewish philosophy is partly metaphysical. He rejects the Aristotelian and kalam views of creation in that work, which argues that God can only be talked about in statements about what God is not. For 10 points, name this author of Commentary on the Mishnah and Guide for the Perplexed, a Jewish philosopher from medieval Spain.
ANSWER: Moses Maimonides [or Moses ben-Maimon; or Rambam]

3.By studying this location, Walter Baade was able to define Population I and Population II stars. Baade was specifically studying the two dense star clusters at the center of this place, which is located next to Triangulum. Ernst Hartwig observed the only supernova to occur in this place, which was discovered in the 900s CE by the Persian astronomer Abd al-Rahman. Listed as number thirty-one in the Messier catalogue, it is expected to collide with the Milky Way in about 2.5 billion years. For 10 points, name this Local Group galaxy, the closest spiral galaxy to the Milky Way.
ANSWER: Andromeda galaxy [accept Messier 31 before “thirty-one” is read]

4.To become president of this modern-day country, Flight Lieutenant Jerry Rawlings overthrew Hilla Limann in 1981. The first post-independence president of this country ruined its cocoa industry and was deposed by Joseph Ankrah while he was visiting China. This country was the first African colony to gain independence from Great Britain, as it did under its first president, Kwame Nkrumah. Under British rule, it was called the Gold Coast. For 10 points, name this West African nation that took its name from an early African empire.
ANSWER: Republic of Ghana

5.A man looks at a mouse at end of a glass tube in this painting, which also depicts a woman balancing a die on her head. Another part of this painting depicts several animals bathing in a pool on its left side and birds flying out of a pink cave. That left section also shows a white giraffe and a unicorn as well as Adam and Eve. A knife between two large ears and a creature eating a human whole are some of the grotesque images on this painting’s right panel, where people are being crucified on instruments in a fiery hell. Naked people cavorting around large strawberries and other symbols of pleasure dominate its center. For 10 points, name this triptych by Hieronymus Bosch.
ANSWER: The Garden of Earthly Delights

6.In the guise of a hawk, this god was held in a wooden chest by Geirrod. This god had to give up Andvari’s ring to cover up the body of Otter, a dwarf he accidentally killed. He assumed the guise of a falcon after Thiazzi persuaded him to steal Idunn’s golden apples. In the Hudsdrapa, this god battles Heimdall in seal form, and another poem sees him hurl insults at a feast given by Aegir. After the death Narfi, Skadi bound this figure with Narfi’s entrails underneath dripping snake poison, and earthquakes occur when this god’s wife Sigyn doesn’t catch the poison. He fathered Hel with Angrboda, and he is also the father of Fenrir. For 10 points, name this Norse trickster god.
ANSWER: Loki

7.This man married the wealthy daughter of Count Kaunitz as a stepping-stone into the political arena, and he arranged Napoleon’s marriage to the Archduchess Marie-Louise. He succeeded Johann Stadion in a post that that he resigned after the Revolutions of 1848. After a student murdered the conservative August Kotzebue, he banned the liberal burschenshaften from universities as part of the Carlsbad Decrees. He also established the Concert of Europe, a balance of power, with the help of Castlereagh and Talleyrand after the Napoleonic Wars. For 10 points, name this Austrian statesman who headed the Congress of Vienna.
ANSWER: Klemens Wenzel Nepomuk Lothar von Metternich

8.The imitation of bagpipes in one of these works is meant to invoke the image of a dancing animal. The finale of the last one is thought to be based on the Croatian folk song “Oj Jelena,” and Turkish percussion instruments are scored in another. In addition to one nicknamed “The Bear,” another of these pieces includes the written instruction “no more” and traditionally sees players leave the stage. These pieces in category 1 of the Hoboken catalog include ones nicknamed “Oxford,” “Military,” and one in which a near silence leads up to a sudden fortissimo chord. “London,” “Farewell,” and “Surprise” are nicknames of, for 10 points, what works by the Austrian composer of The Creation?
ANSWER: symphonies by Joseph Haydn [accept Paris symphonies before “Croatian” is read; prompt on symphonies; do not prompt on “Haydn”]

9.In this work, a king en route to convert the Bilqis encounters a talking ant. Another figure in this work is told to shake a palm tree and eat the dates during childbirth. Another section, which sees Moses resurrect a dead body by slapping it with a cow hide, praises God as “the most Gracious, the Most Merciful.” In another episode, the transcriber ascends through seven heavens to speak to God. The “Throne” and the “Sword” are among its verses, or ayat, and “The Ant,” “Mary,” “The Cow,” and “The Night Journey” are among its chapters, or suras. Revealed by Gabriel to Muhammad, for 10 points, name this Islamic holy book.
ANSWER: Qur’an [or Koran]

10.Two classes of these proteins are hypoacylated in X-chromosome heterochromatin to cause its inactivation. The structures built by these proteins adapt to a “Zig-zag” model and are 30 nanometers in diameter. A-T base pairs are preferentially located in the inner minor grove on these structures. The abundance of positively charged amino acids facilitates these protein’s functions. The initial effect of these highly conserved proteins can be visualized as “beads on a string,” and DNA coils around these proteins to form nucleosomes. For 10 points, name these proteins which, along with the DNA wrapped around them, comprise chromatin.
ANSWER: histones [accept specific types like H1 or H2 or H3 or H4]

11.Future leaders of this state were allowed to kill their slaves in a ritual called the krypteia. This state decided foreign policy issues in a public assembly called the apella, which considered legislation brought forth by its five ephors and by the gerousia. Also known as Lacedaemon, this state lived in constant fear of revolts from its lower class, the helots. It defeated its major rival in the Peloponnesian War. For 10 points, name this Greek city-state, a rival of Athens known for its prowess in war.
ANSWER: Sparta [or Lacedaemon before it is read; or Lacedaemonia before it is read]

12.In one episode in this location’s history, telepathic people detonated a “divine bomb” in a ruined subway station. In the 1970s, U.S. Presidential Science Advisor Otto Hasslein attempted to execute several of its former inhabitants. One figure in its history solved the Lucas Towers in fifteen moves after taking the drug AZN 112. The Icarus crashed in this place, which was the subject of a Broadway musical starring Troy McClure on The Simpsons. This place was founded by Caesar, played by Andy Serkis in a 2011 film about its rise. For 10 points, name this location, actually Earth, where Charlton Heston uttered the line “take your stinking paws off me, you damned dirty ape!”
ANSWER: The Planet of the Apes [or the Forbidden Zone until “Lucas” is read; prompt on Earth; prompt on New York until “Lucas” is read]

13.In this novel, one character sends his illegitimate son Chicken George to England to settle a cockfighting debt. The central family of this work moves to Henning, Tennessee, the final setting of this novel in which one character has a foot amputated after attempting to flee Spotsylvania. Tom Lea’s son tells the story of the first major character of this novel after the birth of each of his children and later has to leave North Carolina because of a law about the re-enslavement of free blacks. In this novel, Dr. Waller sells off Kizzy, the daughter of the Gambian Muslim Kunta Kinte. For 10 points, name this fictionalized account of the heritage of Alex Haley.
ANSWER: Roots: The Saga of an American Family

14.In one work, this economist cited trade unions and citizens’ organizations as “countervailing powers” to the advantages of big business. Another of this man’s works claims that shareholders are losing control of companies to upper-level “technostructures” that do not seek to maximize profit. That work argues that supply and demand have taken a backseat to advertising and vertical integration for corporations. Another of this man’s works, which explores the economic disparity between the private and public, uses the term “conventional wisdom.” For 10 points, name this author of The New Industrial State and The Affluent Society.
ANSWER: John Kenneth Galbraith

15.One character in this opera sings about his many loves in the aria “Non so più cosa son, cosa faccio” and jumps out of a window after hiding in a closet. That character also sings the aria “Voi che sapete.” A pin conveying a secret meeting is lost by Barbarina at the beginning of Act Four. In Act Three, a contract is nullified after it is revealed the title character is the son of Marcellina and Bartolo. In this opera, both the page Cherubino and the Countess Rosina dress up as Susanna, whom Count Almaviva attempts to woo. Susanna is the bride of the title character who, in another work, serves as the Barber of Seville. For 10 points, name this opera by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart.
ANSWER: The Marriage of Figaro [or Le nozze di Figaro]

16.The protagonist of this play rebukes the adage that “the savage bull doth bear the yoke,” asserting that he will never get married. Another character in this play commands his sexton to make a note that Conrad has made him look like an ass. Two brides in this play arrive at their wedding wearing masks. In this play set in Messina, Margaret and Borachio make love as part of Don John’s scheme to make Claudio think that his lover Hero is being unfaithful. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play in which Dogberry exposes Don John’s scheme and Beatrice marries Benedick.
ANSWER: Much Ado About Nothing

17.The product of this quantity and the gyromagnetic ratio gives the magnetic dipole moment. This quantity’s operators are obtained by multiplying h-bar over two times the Pauli matrix. Silver atoms were sent through an inhomogeneous magnetic field to confirm its existence in the Stern-Gerlach experiment. Particles with half-integer values for this quantity, or fermions, cannot simultaneously occupy the same quantum state, but bosons can because they have integer values for it, according to the Pauli Exclusion Principle. For 10 points, name this intrinsic angular momentum of a particle.
ANSWER: spin

18.One title character created by this man gains a superhuman memory after falling off a horse. Another of this man’s title characters is a French author who “translates” Don Quixote by copying the original. This author of “Pierre Menard” also set a short story in a series of hexagonal rooms. This author of “Funes the Memorious” and “The Library of Babel” wrote about a spy named Yu Tsun who conveys the location of an artillery park by murdering a man named Albert. For 10 points, name this Argentinean author who included “The Garden of Forking Paths” in his collection Ficciones.
ANSWER: Jorge Luis Borges

19.The chorus of this play says, “what a remarkable piece of work is man.” After a dust storm that blinds them has passed, guards in this work discover the title character’s crime. In this play, the protagonist’s lover, Haemon, tries to stab the king but misses and falls on his own sword after the protagonist hangs herself. Creon had earlier decided to seal the title character in a cave because she ignored her sister Ismene’s warnings and tried to give their brother Polyneices a proper burial. For 10 points, name this third of Sophocles’ Theban plays, whose title character is a daughter of Oedipus.
ANSWER: Antigone

20.Common models of these molecules include the “freely jointed rod” and “worm-like chain.” Tacticity describes the arrangement of these compounds’ substituents, which are sometimes called Kuhn segments. The Flory-Huggins theory models these substances. The synthetic condensation form of these are synthesized in a step-growth method. The free radical mechanism of synthesizing these compounds includes initiation, propagation, and termination stages, and Ziegler-Natta catalysts are often used in their synthesis. Common examples include nylon, PVC, and plastics such as polyethylene and polypropylene. For 10 points, name these compounds that are large chains of repeating monomers.
ANSWER: polymers

21.This island was known in Sanskrit as Swarnadwipa and Swanabhumi, or “land of gold,” in ancient times. Jambi and Pekanbu are cities on this island, where the Batak people live on Lake Toba, its largest lake. The Barisan Mountains span the entire west coast of this island, whose tallest mountain is Mount Kerinci and whose largest city is Medan. This island is separated from the Malay Peninsula to the north by the Strait of Malacca, and from Java to the south by the Sunda Strait. For 10 points, name this largest island completely owned by Indonesia.
ANSWER: Sumatra [or Sumatera]

Bonuses: 

1.The Counting of the Omer is the counting of the forty-nine days between Passover and this holiday. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Jewish holiday that corresponds with the end of the barley harvest. It is traditional to consume dairy foods on this day, which also sees the reading of the Book of Ruth.
ANSWER: Shavuot
[10] Shavuot commemorates God’s delivery of the Ten Commandments, as well as this text, to Moses atop Mount Sinai. This text consists of the first five books of the Bible.
ANSWER: Torah [or Pentateuch]
[10] This woman in the book of Ruth is the wife of Elimelech and mother-in-law of Ruth, with whom she travels to Bethlehem.
ANSWER: Naomi

2.A dyon with no electric charge would be considered one of these particles, which are theorized to be the source of the magnetic field. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these hypothetical particles that possess a magnetic charge but no distinct north and sound ends.
ANSWER: magnetic monopoles
[10] The existence of magnetic monopoles would violate this one of Maxwell’s equations since this law states that the divergence of the magnetic field is zero. 
ANSWER: Gauss’s law for magnetism
[10] According to this physicist’s namesake quantization condition, the existence of magnetic monopoles would imply the quantization of electric charge. 
ANSWER: Paul Dirac

3.For 10 points each, name these South American rivers.
[10] This river, the second longest in South America after the Amazon, is the longest river in Venezuela and drains into the Gulf of Paría and the Atlantic Ocean.
ANSWER: Orinoco River [or Rio Orinoco]
[10] This river is formed from the confluence of the Paraná and Uruguay Rivers and separates Uruguay from Argentina.
ANSWER: Rio de la Plata [or River Plate]
[10] This river splits its namesake country in half, with the Gran Chaco region to the west and the forested land to the east.
ANSWER: Paraguay River [or Rio Paraguay; or Rio Paraguai]

4.Along with John Burgee, this man designed an office building at Fifty-Third Street and Third Avenue that is named for its resemblance to a tube of lipstick. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this architect who won the inaugural Pritzker Prize. His personal residence in New Canaan, Connecticut is known as the Glass House due to its extensive use of that material.
ANSWER: Philip Cortelyou Johnson
[10] Philip Johnson collaborated with Mies van der Rohe on this New York skyscraper named for a Canadian distillery. It features automated window blinds and houses the Four Seasons Restaurant.
ANSWER: Seagram Building
[10] Johnson also designed the residence of art collector John de Menil in this large city in the southern United States. The Renzo Piano-designed Menil Collection and the Rothko Chapel are also found here.
ANSWER: Houston

5.They include lowering of vapor pressure, elevation of boiling point, and depression of freezing point. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these chemical properties that depend only on the concentration of particles in a solvent and not on the mass of the particles.
ANSWER: colligative properties
[10] Symbolized lowercase i, this quantity measures the effect that a solute has on colligative properties, specifically the number of particles into which the solute dissociates.
ANSWER: van’t Hoff factor
[10] The product of the van’t Hoff factor, molarity, gas constant, and temperature gives this colligative property. It is the quantity that prevents the flow of water across a semi-permeable membrane.
ANSWER: osmotic pressure

6.This man was targeted in a plot led by Gaston d’Orleans and the Marquis de Cinq-Mars. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this powerful cardinal, nicknamed the “Red Eminence.” He gained his highest post because of his relationship with the minister Concino Concini, a favorite of the queen.
ANSWER: Cardinal Richelieu [or Armand Jean du Plessis]
[10] Richelieu was the advisor to this French king during the Thirty Year’s War. This king was the son of Henry IV.
ANSWER: Louis XIII of France [prompt on Louis]
[10] This queen, the mother and regent of Louis XIII, attempted to dismiss Richelieu during the Day of the Dupes. Instead, Louis banished her.
ANSWER: Marie de Medici

7.In this novel, the title character kills his friend Vladimir Lensky in a duel over Olga. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel in which Olga’s sister Tatyana falls in love with the title character but rejects him when he attempts to seduce her after her marriage several years later.
ANSWER: Eugene Onegin
[10] This author of Eugene Onegin also wrote a historical verse drama about Boris Godunov. Hermann goes insane after accidentally betting on the title card in this man’s Queen of Spades.
ANSWER: Alexander Sergeyevich Pushkin
[10] This long poem by Pushkin tells of the title knight’s quest to rescue his new bride from the evil wizard Chernomor.
ANSWER: Ruslan and Ludmila

8.This artist showed Joseph holding up sheet music for a violin-playing angel in his Rest on the Flight into Egypt. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Baroque Italian painter whose Supper at Emmaus demonstrates his extensive use of shadows and light, a style called tenebrism.
ANSWER: Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio
[10] In this Carvaggio painting located in the Contarelli Chapel, light streams in from an unseen window as Jesus reveals himself to a group of tax collectors, including the title evangelist.
ANSWER: The Calling of St. Matthew
[10] This other Caravaggio painting depicts a young boy reaches for an extra four of clubs in his belt as he and his accomplice attempt to dupe an unsuspecting boy.
ANSWER: The Cardsharps

9.One of his prime ministers was assassinated in the May 15 incident, and several of his ministers were killed in the 2-26 incident. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Showa-era emperor of Japan who reigned during World War II.
ANSWER: Michinomiya Hirohito
[10] Hirohito told the Japanese people to “endure the unendurable” and renounced his divinity in this 1945 broadcast, which occurred after the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
ANSWER: Jewel Voice Broadcast [or Gyokuon-hoso]
[10] After Japan’s defeat in World War II, Hirohito managed to avoid the war crimes trials that condemned this Prime Minister. This man survived a 1945 suicide attempt before his execution by hanging in 1946.
ANSWER: Hideki Tojo [or Tojo Hideki]

10.The protagonist of this novel is a scientist-turned-stockbroker who invests in American Motors. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel in which Binx Bolling uses escapism to learn about himself and has a moment of self-awareness on Ash Wednesday before he decides to attend medical school.
ANSWER: The Moviegoer
[10] This American author of The Moviegoer wrote about a psychiatrist named after Sir Thomas More in both The Thanatos Syndrome and Love in the Ruins.
ANSWER: Walker Percy
[10] The Moviegoer takes place in this city, where Binx attends the Mardi Gras parade. A Streetcar Named Desire is also set here.
ANSWER: New Orleans

11.It begins with four A minor notes followed by notes in E and F, and this piece is often considered to be the fifth of its composers piano concertos because it follows a slow-fast-slow structure. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this set of twenty-four variations on the twenty-fourth caprice of an Italian violinist who was rumored to have had made a deal with the Devil.
ANSWER: Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini
[10] This Russian composer wrote Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini. He quotes the Dies Irae in a tone poem inspired by the titular Arnold Böcklin painting in his Isle of the Dead
ANSWER: Sergei Vasilyevich Rachmaninoff
[10] Both Chekov’s short story “On the Road” and Lermontov’s poem of the same name inspired this 1893 symphonic poem, whose ending presents a “yearning” theme that is meant to depict a man waiting in the snow.
ANSWER: The Rock [or The Crag; or Utyos]

12.A military court sentenced this man and three other members of the Knights of the Golden Circle to hang for planning a break-in of a Union POW camp in Indiana. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this man who was freed after the Supreme Court ruled that civilians cannot be tried by military courts in the ex parte case that bears his name.
ANSWER: Lambdin Purdy Milligan
[10] Milligan’s actions were a rallying point for the Copperheads, a vehemently anti-war faction of this political party on the eve of the Civil War. James Buchanan was a member of this party.
ANSWER: Democratic Party [or Democrats]
[10] This Ohio congressman and Copperhead was arrested for treason because of his anti-War stance and had his writ of habeas corpus suspended. While in exile in Canada, he unsuccessfully ran for the governorship of Ohio.
ANSWER: Clement Laird Vallandigham

13.Denaturing and annealing are the first two steps of this process, and its ‘real type’ variation can quantify amounts of DNA present in a given sample. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this laboratory technique that uses two primers, DNA polymerase, and DNTPs to “amplify” DNA.
ANWER: PCR [or polymerase chain reaction]
[10] PCR usually uses a DNA polymerase from this aquatic bacterium that in nature lives at about 75 degrees Celsius.
ANSWER: Taq polymerase [or T. aquaticus]
[10] In labs, electrophoresed gels may be visualized with ethidium bromide, which is an example of these compounds that cause frameshift mutations by squeezing between DNA base pairs.
ANSWER: intercalating agents [or just intercalate]

14.Name some philosophers of science, for 10 points each.
[10] This man’s namesake principle, also known as the principle of parsimony, states that “plurality is not to be posited without necessity.”
ANSWER: William of Ockham
[10] This Austrian-born philosopher scientific methodology based on the principle of falsifiability in his The Logic of Scientific Discovery, although he was also the author of The Poverty of Historicism and The Open Society and its Enemies.
ANSWER:  Karl Popper
[10] Along with Duhem, this American analytic philosopher names a thesis that states it is impossible to test a scientific theory in isolation, and he also espoused the indeterminacy of translation in his Word and Object.
ANSWER: Willard Van Orman Quine

15.Titus Oates invented a fictional assassination conspiracy called the Popish Plot that supposedly targeted this ruler, who survived the Rye House plot. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this “Merrie Monarch,” the king of England who reigned during the Great Fire of London.
ANSWER: Charles II of England [prompt on Charles]
[10] Charles took the throne after the Restoration displaced this Roundhead, who served as Lord Protector from 1653 to 1658. He defeated Charles at the Battle of Worcester.
ANSWER: Oliver Cromwell
[10] George Monck laid the groundwork for the Restoration after he forced this legislature to readmit those who had been removed during Pride’s Purge of the Long Parliament.
ANSWER: Rump Parliament

16.Venn diagrams can be used to graphically represent operations on these entities including intersection, union, and complement. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these mathematical constructs that are collections of unordered elements. They are denoted as a list enclosed by curly brackets.
ANSWER: sets
[10] This German mathematician is regarded as the father of set theory. His namesake diagonalization argument proves that the real numbers are uncountable.
ANSWER: Georg Cantor
[10] According to this hypothesis put forth by Cantor, a set’s cardinality cannot be between that of the naturals and the reals. This statement is the subject of Hilbert’s first problem.
ANSWER: continuum hypothesis

17.He wrote, “the awful shadow of some unseen power floats unseen among us” in “Hymn to Intellectual Beauty.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poet who wondered, “If Winter comes can Spring be far behind?” in “Ode to the West Wind.”
ANSWER: Percy Bysshe Shelley
[10] In this Percy Shelley poem, the speaker encounters a “traveller from an antique land” who tells him of a broken statue in the desert. The statue’s inscription reads: “Look on my works, ye mighty, and despair.”
ANSWER: “Ozymandias”
[10] Shelley elegized John Keats in this lengthy poem. The speaker declares that the title figure’s soul “beacons from the abode where the eternal are.”
ANSWER: “Adonais”

18.This ruler of Mount Sipylus stole nectar and ambrosia from a banquet on Mount Olympus. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this son of Zeus who was punished in the underworld with food and drink just beyond his reach.
ANSWER: Tantalus
[10] Tantalus also attempted to trick the gods by serving his son Pelops at a banquet. Pelops wore an ivory prosthetic in place of this body part, which was eaten by Demeter at the banquet.
ANSWER: shoulder
[10] Pelops married this woman after defeating her father Oenomaus in a chariot race with the help of Myrtilus. Pelops and this woman’s children include Atreus and Eurydice.
ANSWER: Hippodamia

19.This state’s government shut down on July 1, 2011, after a budget disagreement between the governor and the Republican legislature. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this state where Governor Mark Dayton eventually agreed to the Republicans’ budget cuts on July 20, ending the shutdown.
ANSWER: Minnesota
[10] This Republican’s governorship left Minnesota’s budget about five billion dollars short. Serving from 2003 to 2011, he grappled with the Minnesota Supreme Court over his use of “unallotment.”
ANSWER: Tim Pawlenty [or Timothy James Pawlenty]
[10] Tim Pawlenty withdrew from the 2012 Republican Presidential race in August 2011 after finishing third in the Iowa Ames Straw Poll. This Minnesota congresswoman and Tea Party member came in first.
ANSWER: Michele Marie Bachmann [or Michele Marie Amble]

20.For 10 points each, name the following about works of Chinua Achebe.
[10] The protagonist of this novel is a wrestler named Okonkwo who resents British influence on his village Umuofia and ultimately hangs himself.
ANSWER: Things Fall Apart
[10] In this sequel to Things Fall Apart, Okonkwo’s grandson Obi returns to Nigeria after attending an English university. Obi accepts a bribe when he finds his job as a Nigerian civil servant difficult.
ANSWER: No Longer at Ease
[10] In Things Fall Apart, this boy must be killed because he is an outsider. Even though this boy is his adopted son, Okonkwo participates in his killing.
ANSWER: Ikemefuna

21.On Dobu Island, all men can participate in this system, whereas on the Trobriand Islands, the exchange is monopolized by the chiefs. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this system of ceremonial barter of shell-disc necklaces or soulava.
ANSWER: Kula ring
[10] The Kula ring is described in this man’s Argonauts of the Western Pacific. This Polish guy is considered the founder of ethnography.
ANSWER: Branislaw Malinowski
[10] This man drew on Malinowski’s study of the kula ring to argue that giving the title object between groups builds relationships between humans in The Gift.
ANSWER: Marcel Mauss
