ACF Fall 2011

Packet by Washington University in St. Louis A (Jason Zhang, Sanaa Abrar, Joshua Jacobs, and Charles Hang)

Edited by Sarah Angelo, Bryan Berend, Matt Bollinger, Matt Hart, Gaurav Kandlikar, and Matt Menard



1.Ordinary people in one of this man’s works “went without the meat and cursed the bread.” The title character of another of this man’s poems “mourned Romance, now on the town and Art, a vagrant.” One of his poems describes a “child of scorn” who “dreamed of Thebes and Camelot, and Priam’s neighbors” but “called it fate and kept on drinking.” Another work by this man describes a “gentleman from sole to crown” who “one calm summer night went home and put a bullet through his head.” For 10 points, name this American “poet laureate of unhappiness” and author of “Miniver Cheevy” and “Richard Cory.”

ANSWER: Edwin Arlington Robinson



2.One of this philosopher’s concepts argued that technology is fundamentally a way of enframing. Resolution is described as an acceptance of another of this philosopher’s concepts, which is described as manifesting the freedom of man to choose himself and take hold of himself. This formulator of the concept of “Gestell” described “Angst” as a way in which another concept is shown as a contingent being. That other concept formulated by this thinker is considered via questions of fallenness and thrownness and comes from a term for existence. For 10 points, name this author who formulated the concept of “Dasein” in his Being and Time, and who was a supporter of the Nazis.

ANSWER: Martin Heidegger



3.Due to its poor acceptance, one of this artist’s paintings was cut into two separate works: The Bullfight and The Dead Toreador. Two women in blue bonnets sit in the foreground of a painting dominated by men in top hats in his Music in the Tuileries. A cat stands at the feet of a reclining woman in a work of his that was inspired by the Venus of Urbino. The model for that painting, Victorine Meurent, appears in another of this man’s paintings, which caused a scandal at the Salon des Refusés of 1863 due to its depiction of a nude woman casually sitting among some trees next to two fully-dressed men. For 10 points, name this French painter of Olympia and The Luncheon on the Grass.

ANSWER: Eduoard Manet



4.In one work by this author, an inheritance reveals that the younger son of Madame Roland is illegitimate. In another work by this author of “Pierre and Jean,” the democrat Cornudet is the last to give up his opposition to a proposal made that Elisabeth, who provided her companions with food in their coach, sleep with a Prussian commandant in order to guarantee their passage. This author of “Ball of Fat” also wrote a story in which Mathilde and her husband spend ten years in debt attempting to replace an item lost at a ball that is eventually revealed to have been a fake. For 10 points, name this French author of short stories such as “The Necklace.”

ANSWER: Henry-Rene-Albert Guy de Maupassant



5.This man is often credited with slaying the husband of Laodameia, after which she “interacted with” a statue of that dead husband. This man married a daughter of Eetion and was the father of Scamandrius. This man won a duel with Protiselaus, but he exchanged his sword for a girdle after an inconclusive duel against the king of Salamis. He was the only one of the Nine Worthies from pagan mythology. This man’s father negotiated for the ransom of his corpse after this man’s corpse was dragged around the walls of a city, from which his son Astyanax was later thrown. For 10 points, name this Trojan prince who was Andromache’s husband and the eldest son of Priam and Hecuba.

ANSWER: Hector



6.A relief of The Birth of Pandora can be found on a pedestal at this site, a treatise of which was supposedly authored by Karpion and one of its architects. Depictions of the sack of Troy on its north side are badly damaged, and the metopes on its south side depict the battle between Lapiths and Centaurs. The exterior walls of the cella contain a frieze depicting the Pantheatic procession. Designed by Ictinus and Callicrates, this building once housed works that were taken by the British ambassador Lord Elgin. Its main attraction was a chryselephantine statue of its dedicatee sculpted by Phidias. For 10 points, name this temple to Athena that sits on the Acropolis.

ANSWER: Parthenon



7.This figure once wrote a letter to Liz Herbert asking to volunteer for a certain cause when Liz’s husband, the secretary of war Sidney Herbert, had already written to her, and the letters became crossed in the mail. This Unitarian created the polar area diagram, or “Coxcomb Chart,” to compare the number of deaths from different causes over different months. This “Lady with the Lamp” worked in a hospital at Scutari to nurse British soldiers during the Crimean War. For 10 points, name this woman who was a pioneer of modern nursing.

ANSWER:  Florence Nightingale



8.In chapter 13 of Exodus, this figure’s bones are taken with the Israelites after an oath he made them swear. This figure’s father placed his right hand on this figure’s younger son Ephraim and his left on Manasseh while blessing him, saying that the younger would be the greater. This figure interpreted the dreams of a baker and cup bearer while in prison for refusing the advances of Potiphar’s wife. He later interpreted a dream of seven lean and seven fat cattle for the Pharoah. This man’s brothers included Reuben, who disagreed with their plot to kill this figure. For 10 points, name this son of Jacob whose brothers sold him into slavery in Egypt and who owned a multicolored coat.

ANSWER: Joseph



9.Low-pass filters using these devices require fewer components than the corresponding high-pass filters because the impedance of these devices in an AC circuit is directly proportional to their frequency. Two or more of these devices are used to form a transformer. When this device is combined with a capacitor, it forms an electronic resonator in the form of an LC circuit. The voltage across one is given by its namesake property multiplied by the time derivative of current. For 10 points, name this circuit element, whose namesake property is measured in Henries, and which stores energy in a magnetic field. 
ANSWER: inductors



10.Players of this instrument include Gregor Piatigorsky, for whom both Walton and Hindemith dedicated their concertos, and Arthur Toscanini, who played it at the premiere of Aida. The Davidoff Stradivarius was played by Jacqueline du Pre, who helped popularize the concerto for it by Elgar. The fifth suite of Bachianas Brasileiras calls for eight of these instruments, six solos for which were written by J.S. Bach. Shostakovich’s concertos for it were written for Mstislav Rostropovich, while another player of it founded the Silk Road Ensemble. For 10 points, name this stringed instrument that is played by Pablo Casals and Yo-Yo Ma.

ANSWER: cellos



11.In this novel, one character attempts to earn money to buy medicine for the violinist Agostino by offering the protagonist an extra night with their shared lover. The title character of this novel places himself under the wing of a woman who reminds him of a boyhood friend and later discusses Mozart with a saxophonist. The protagonist of this novel dances with Maria at the Dress Ball until another character summons him. After a journey through a place “for madmen only,” the saxophonist Pablo’s Magic Theater, the protagonist of this novel stabs Hermine. For 10 points, name this novel in which Harry Haller struggles with his partially canine nature, a work by Hermann Hesse.

ANSWER: Der Steppenwolf



12.Special episodes of this show include one with documentary-style interviews with David Gergen, Dee Dee Myers, and Bill Clinton and another delayed the start of the third season in order to respond to the September 11th attacks. In order to focus on this series, its creator ended his previous series about a late night sports show called Sports Night. This series often revolves around one character that was initially never supposed to appear; that character is portrayed by Martin Sheen. For 10 points, name this show about Josh, C.J., Toby, Leo, and the other members of President Bartlet’s administration, created by Aaron Sorkin.

ANSWER: The West Wing



13.This man was the first to propose a framework specified by the specifier, adjunct, and complement rules. That method is known as X-bar theory. His namesake hierarchy consists of four types ordered by increasing specificity. In one of his works, he concludes that “grammar is autonomous and independent of meaning” and goes on to describe models based on a conception of language as a Markov process. Also in that work, he introduces his theory of syntax called transformational generative grammar and the phrase “colorless green ideas sleep furiously.” For ten points, name this author of The Sound Pattern of English and Syntactic Structures who is a professor at MIT.

ANSWER: Avram Noam Chomsky



14.Any open proper subset of C can be put into an analytic isomorphism with the open unit disk as a result of this man's namesake Open Mapping Theorem. Conditions for the differentiability of a function of complex variables are given by equations named for Cauchy and this man. An object co-named with Stieltjes is a generalization of an object named for him, but is less general than the Lesbesgue one. This man’s hypothesis is connected to the distribution of prime numbers and concerns the location of the nontrivial zeroes of this man's Zeta function. For 10 points, name this German mathematician whose namesake integral is the limit of his namesake sums.

ANSWER: Georg Friedrich Bernhard Riemann



15.In this novel, one character gladly accepts the idea of exile because he is bored with his job of writing hypnopaedic phrases. Henry Foster has been dating one character in this novel who falls for a man raised on the works of Shakespeare. In this novel, John grows angry when a group of boys wonder why his dying mother Linda is so ugly. After a trip to the Reservation with Lenina, Bernard Marx reveals that John is the son of the Director. This novel, in which people are conditioned into castes like alpha and delta, includes heavy use of the drug soma. For 10 points, name this dystopian novel in which John the Savage hangs himself, which was written by Aldous Huxley.

ANSWER: Brave New World



16.This man excommunicated the conservative Marcel Lefebvre for consecrating bishops without papal approval. He coined the term “culture of death” in the encyclical Evangelium Vitae. This man survived an assassination attempt by the Turkish Mehmet Ali Agca, whom he later forgave. This man sparked controversy by opposing Liberation Theology in Latin America while simultaneously promoting his home country’s Solidarity union. For 10 points, name this recently-beatified Polish pope, succeeded by Benedict XVI.

ANSWER: John Paul II [or JP II; or Johannes Paulus II; or Karol Jozef Wojtyla; prompt on John Paul; prompt on Johannes Paulus]



17.The skeletal electron pairs of compounds made of this element bonded to hydrogen determines their classifications in categories such as closo or arachno based on Wade’s rules. A palladium catalyzed reaction to convert an acid containing this element into an alkyl halide is named for Suzuki. Though it is not silicon, this element is used to make pyrex glass. A compound containing this element is used along with tetrahydrofuran to convert an alkane into an anti-Markovnikov alcohol. This trivalent element is often used to dope P-type semiconductors. For 10 points, name this element with atomic number 5 and symbol B.

ANSWER: boron



18.After this conflict, one side evaluated its military in the Agranat Commission, which recommended the resignation of Chief of Staff David Eleazar. As a result of this conflict, the other side’s president became known as the “Hero of the Crossing” for regaining territory lost in the War of Attrition. Before this conflict, Henry Kissinger advised Golda Meir not to launch a pre-emptive attack. This war began when Egypt and Syria launched simultaneous attacks across the Golan Heights and Suez Canal. For 10 points, name this war in which an Arab alliance attacked Israel in 1973 during a certain Jewish holiday.

ANSWER: Yom Kippur War [or October War; prompt on Arab-Israeli War]



19.The Supreme Court ruled this practice constitutional in Arver v. United States. In the 1970s, it was accomplished through a procedure in which drawings were conducted from a jar containing 366 blue capsules. Protests against it were at the center of United States v. O’Brien. Students protested against it by burning certain cards and could avoid it by fleeing to Canada. For 10 points, name this institution established by the Selective Service Act, which is the forcible conscription of citizens into military service.

ANSWER: the draft [or equivalent answers such as conscription; or Selective Service before it is read]



20.These compounds are usually synthesized by treating the precursor 6-APA with acid chlorides, and John Sheehan pioneered the synthesis of these compounds. These compounds have a four member ring consisting of three carbon and one nitrogen atom, and that ring can be hydrolyzed by beta-lactamase enzymes. Cells of the species Pseudomonas aeruginosa are particularly resistant to most variants of these compounds, and these compounds inhibit the function of transpeptidase enzymes, which subsequently inhibits the cross linking that occurs in bacterial cell walls. For 10 points, name these antibiotics discovered by Alexander Fleming, which are derived from a mold.

ANSWER: penicillins [prompt on antibiotics; prompt on antibiotic compounds]



21.This dynasty was the first whose emperors are known primarily by their Era Names, rather than their Temple Names. This dynasty’s decline began after a Mongol khan captured one of its emperors during the Tumu Crisis. This dynasty’s Yongle Emperor sent the Muslim eunuch Zheng He on a number of voyages. The Forbidden City was constructed under this last ethnically Chinese dynasty. For 10 points, name this dynasty lasting from 1368 to 1644, which produced renowned porcelain pottery.

ANSWER: Ming Dynasty



Bonuses:



1.Its section on aesthetics describes genius as the capacity for aesthetic experience. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this work that describes nature as the expression of a will to live, though it also describes daily life as suffering and advocates asceticism and denial of the will.

ANSWER: The World as Will and Representation [or The World as Will and Idea; or Die Welt als Wille und Vorstellung]

[10] The World as Will and Representation was the magnum opus of this German philosopher who criticized the work of Immanuel Kant in its appendix.

ANSWER: Arthur Schopenhauer

[10] Schopenhauer's dissertation was On the Fourfold Root of this concept, which was originally described by Leibniz, and which holds that everything that is true has an explanation for its truth.

ANSWER: Principle of Sufficient Reason



2.In English, poems written in this form are usually laments for the dead. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this poetic form that in Latin also often contains erotic themes. Propertius wrote four books of these, and this form’s namesake meter is written in couplets, with one line consisting of five feet and the other of six.

ANSWER: elegy [or elegies]

[10] The work of this Roman elegiac poet is titled numerically. One poem by this man laments the death of his lover’s pet sparrow, and another poem condemns a man who has stolen his napkins.

ANSWER: Gaius Valerius Catullus

[10] Catullus addressed many of his poems to this woman, named in honor of Sappho, who may in real life have been the infamous Clodia.

ANSWER: Lesbia



3.One of these pieces for four voices follows a toccata in D minor in one work. Another work by the same composer has one these pieces follow a passacaglia in C minor. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this contrapuntal technique that begins with an exposition section where one voice introduces the “subject.” The other voices then deliver “answers” to that subject. They should not be confused with canons.

ANSWER: fugues

[10] Fugues were often used by this German Baroque composer, who included 33 variations in his Goldberg Variations. His son, Carl Philipp Emanuel, was also an influential composer.

ANSWER: Johann Sebastian Bach [prompt on Bach]

[10] Bach also composed The Musical Offering, whose ending trio sonata contains a notably difficult part for this instrument. Varese’s Density 21.5 and Debussy’s Syrinx are both solo pieces for this instrument.

ANSWER: transverse flute



4.This figure is often identified with the infrequently attested goddess Hlin. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this Aesir goddess whose “second sorrow” was her husband's death during Ragnarok at the jaws of the wolf Fenrir.

ANSWER: Frigga

[10] Frigg's husband was this god, who rode the eight-legged steed Sleipnir and was accompanied by the ravens Huginn and Muninn. He was also the All-Father and chief god of the Norse pantheon.

ANSWER: Odin [or Wotan; or Woden]

[10] Frigg's first sorrow was the death of her son Baldr, who was killed by a mistletoe dart flung by this member of the Aesir. Baldr was eventually avenged when Vali slew this blind son of Odin.

ANSWER: Hoder [or Hod]



5.This poem opens “That is no country for old men.” For 10 points each:

[10] Name this poem whose speaker then travels to a “holy city” whose sages he asks to “be the singing-masters of my soul.”

ANSWER: “Sailing to Byzantium”

[10] This author of “Sailing to Byzantium” also asked, “what rough beast…slouches towards Bethlehem to be born?” in “The Second Coming.”

ANSWER: William Butler Yeats

[10] The speaker of this Yeats poem counts 59 of the title creatures, who “drift on the still water, mysterious, beautiful.”

ANSWER: “The Wild Swans at Coole”



6.This painting inspired a work by contemporary artist John Baldessari in which he took a picture of himself and wrote the word “Wrong” underneath. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this painting which depicts a brown pipe, under which the phrase “Ceci n'est pas une pipe,” or “This is not a pipe,” is written.

ANSWER: The Treachery of Images [or The Treason of Images; or La trahison des images]

[10] The Treachery of Images is a painting by this surrealist Belgian. This artist also painted an apple obscuring the face of a man in a bowler hat in his The Son of Man.

ANSWER: René Magritte 

[10] Another Belgian artist is this man, a late nineteenth century painter who depicted a crowd of people under a banner reading “Vive La Sociale” in his painting Christ’s Entry into Brussels.

ANSWER: James Ensor



7.It begins, “In the beginning was the word,” and is the only gospel to describe the resurrection of Lazarus. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this non-synoptic gospel, whose author is traditionally identified with the beloved disciple.

ANSWER: Gospel of John

[10] The beloved disciple outran Simon Peter on the way to the cave owned by this man, who donated it for the burial of Jesus' body. He is named for an otherwise unknown city in Judaea.

ANSWER: Joseph of Arimathea

[10] Absent from the Gospel of John is the post-resurrection appearance of Jesus to Cleopas on the road to this place. Cleopas does not recognize Jesus until their evening meal when they reach this destination.

ANSWER: Emmaus



8.Its predictions include time dilation and length contraction. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this physical theory that describes physical measurement in an inertial reference frame and predicts the equivalence of mass and energy in the equation e equals m c squared. 

ANSWER: special relativity

[10] One misapplication of time dilation leads to this supposed paradox in which one of its namesake characters leaves Earth on a rocket ship and the other remains on Earth, with the result that both think the other should have aged slower.

ANSWER: Twin Paradox

[10] This other paradox of special relativity is formulated in terms of a rigid rotating disc for which the circumference contracts but the radius does not. 

ANSWER: Ehrenfest's Paradox



9.A European trade war in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries here led to the unique geographies of some African nations. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this country, formerly a British colony, located on a namesake river and with capital Banjul.

ANSWER: Republic of The Gambia

[10]Except for a small coastline on the Atlantic Ocean, The Gambia is completely surrounded by this country, whose cities include Saint-Louis and the capital, Dakar.

ANSWER: Republic of Senegal [or Republique du Senegal]

[10]Dakar succeeded Saint-Louis as capital of this territory, a federation of eight colonies, including Senegal, Upper Volta, and Dahomey, which in part replaced the colony of Senegambia-Niger.

ANSWER: French West Africa [or Afrique occidentale français; prompt on FWA; prompt on AOF]



10.Both people in this painting wear yellow robes, which seem to blend together; however, the man’s robe is decorated with rectangles and the woman’s is decorated with multi-colored circles. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this work where a man leans over a kneeling woman on a flower-covered field. This 1908 work was inspired by Byzantine mosaics.

ANSWER: The Kiss [or Der Kuss]

[10] The Kiss was painted by Gustav Klimt during a phase named after this substance. Klimt often used the “leafs” of this precious metal in his artwork.

ANSWER: gold [or gold leaf; or Golden Phase]

[10] Klimt also created three paintings for the ceiling of the university in this city, where he also helped found a namesake “Secession” group.

ANSWER: Vienna [or Wien; or Viden; or Bécs]



11.Ferrell cells are found on either sides of these climate patterns, and the subsidence zones are found between these cells and Ferrell cells. For 10 points each:

[10] Name these atmospheric cells found between 30 degrees north and south of the equator, in which warm equatorial air rises and forms towers of cumulus clouds.

ANSWER: Hadley Cells [or Hadley currents]

[10] This region of low pressure occurs at the rising areas of Hadley Cells as a result of the meeting of northeast and southeast trade winds. These zones were historically called the doldrums, and many hurricanes originate here.

ANSWER: Intertropical Convergence Zones [or ITCZs; or Intertropical Front; or Equatorial Convergence Zone; or Intertropical Confluence; or Intertropical Discontinuity]

[10] This weather phenomenon occurs as a result of a reversal of winds that result in long periods of drought followed by periods of intense rainfall. This phenomenon is prevalent in East Asian countries.

ANSWER: monsoons



12.The debut of the number one overall pick in the 2009 NBA Draft gave this team high hopes. However, he sat out his first season with a knee injury. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this team whose highlights from last season warranted “Blake Griffin Alerts” on SportsCenter.

ANSWER: Los Angeles Clippers [prompt on Los Angeles]

[10] The Clippers acquired Mo Williams and Jamario Moon from the Cleveland Cavaliers in exchange for Baron Davis and their 2011 first round draft pick, with which they selected this point guard first overall.

ANSWER: Kyrie Andrew Irving

[10] This team added Derrick Williams to their frontcourt with the second overall pick in the 2011 NBA Draft to play along with the league’s leading rebounder Kevin Love.

ANSWER: Minnesota Timberwolves [or Minnesota Timberwolves; or T-Wolves]



13.This man passed a law requiring citizens of his country to adopt surnames. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this first president of Turkey.

ANSWER: Mustafa Kemal Ataturk [or Mustafa Kemal Pasha]

[10] Before Ataturk, this group of Turkish intellectuals led a revolution against Abdulhamid II to initiate liberal reforms. Their leaders included Ahmed Riza, and they formed the CUP.

ANSWER: Young Turks [or Jonturkler]

[10] Ataturk held up ANZAC forces during this campaign, a British attempt to take Constantinople during World War I. Its failure led to the resignation of Winston Churchill as First Lord of the Admiralty.

ANSWER: Gallipoli Campaign [or Dardanelles Campaign]



14.In this novel, Esteban assumes his twin brother Manuel’s identity after the latter’s death. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this novel in which Brother Juniper struggles to find a reason for the ensuing death of Esteban and four others during the collapse of the title object.

ANSWER: The Bridge of San Luis Rey

[10] The Stage Manager narrates this play about the lives of Emily Webb and George Gibbs in Grover’s Corners. This play’s last act includes several dead characters speaking from the cemetery.

ANSWER: Our Town

[10] This author of The Bridge of San Luis Ray and Our Town also told of events from human history such as the ice age and the Seven Years War being experienced by the Antrobus family in his play The Skin of Our Teeth.

ANSWER: Thornton Wilder



15.One of the terms in the denominator of this equation is equal to the concentration of a substrate when v equals half of V-max. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this equation of enzyme kinetics that relates the rate of substrate conversion performed by an enzyme to the concentration of the substrate

ANSWER: Michaelis-Menten equation [accept names in either order]

[10] The Michaelis-Menten equation ignores the effect of this form of non-competitive inhibition, which occurs when an effector molecule inhibits the enzyme by binding to a site away from the active site.

ANSWER: allosteric inhibition [or allosteric site]

[10] The seizure control drug acetazolamide acts by inhibiting the enzyme carbonic anhydrase, which converts the bicarbonate ion into a molecule of water and this gas in the lungs.

ANSWERS: carbon dioxide [or CO2]



16.He was the only king of France ever to be executed. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this king who was guillotined in 1793.

ANSWER: Louis XVI of France [prompt on Louis]

[10] This man was Louis XVI’s finance minister before the outbreak of revolution. He called the meeting of the Estates-General in 1789.

ANSWER: Jacques Necker

[10] This earlier French finance minister was a Scotsman who left England after killing a man in a duel. He set up the Royal Bank, which tanked after the collapse of the Mississippi Bubble.

ANSWER: John Law



17.In this novel, Gina and Nyiko play with kittens before the distressed Maureen drowns the kittens. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this novel in which the Smales family must move to the village of their title servant during a fictional revolution in South Africa.

ANSWER: July’s People

[10] This author of July’s People also wrote a novel in which Rosa learns to accept and act on her own political views rather than continue living in her father’s shadow as merely Burger’s Daughter.

ANSWER: Nadine Gordimer

[10] In Gordimer’s novel Burger’s Daughter, Lionel Burger is a member of this political party whose manifesto was written by Marx and Engels.

ANSWER: Communist Party



18.The namesake structure of this experiment was introduced to an electric field and was observed for its deflection. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this experiment conducted by Millikan that determined the elementary charge of an electron.

ANSWER: Millikan Oil Drop Experiment

[10] The Oil Drop Experiment was primarily conducted at this Midwestern university. Miller and Urey conducted their experiment about the origin of life in the primordial soup in this university.

ANSWER: University of Chicago

[10] The Miller-Urey experiment was based on Juan Oro’s discovery that amino acids could be synthesized from ammonia and a protonated version of this compound, made up of a carbon atom triple bonded to nitrogen.

ANSWER: hydrogen cyanide



19.It allowed for the use of German forced labor as a form of reparations after the war. For 10 points each:

[10] Name this World War II conference that took place at the namesake location in the Crimea. Stalin agreed that the Soviet Union would take part in the invasion of Japan.

ANSWER: Yalta Conference [or Argonaut Conference]

[10] Five months after the Yalta Conference, this Labour prime minister replaced Winston Churchill at the Potsdam Conference.

ANSWER: Clement Richard Attlee

[10] Churchill was criticized for agreeing to allow the Soviet Union to annex a portion of this country. The Conference also set this country’s western border at the Oder-Neisse River.

ANSWER: Republic of Poland [or Rzeczpospolita Polska]



20.Answer the following about a landmark 1961 Supreme Court case, for 10 points each.

[10] Name this case in which the police used a fake search warrant to enter the home of the defendant, who was attempting to hide pornography in her basement.

ANSWER: Mapp v. Ohio [or Ohio v. Mapp]

[10] Mapp v. Ohio established that evidence seized in violation of this amendment was not admissible in court.

ANSWER: Fourth Amendment

[10] This Alabama justice wrote a concurring opinion for the court’s decision in Mapp v. Ohio. A former member of the Ku Klux Klan, he nevertheless supported civil rights during his tenure on the court.

ANSWER: Hugo LaFayette Black



21.This work is credited with coining the term “conventional wisdom.” For 10 points each:

[10] Identify this 1958 work that examined how America had become wealthy in the private sector after World War II but remained poor in the public sector, and that advocated increased spending on public services like education.

ANSWER: The Affluent Society

[10] The Affluent Society was written by this liberal economist who taught at Harvard and served as an economic advisor to John F. Kennedy.

ANSWER: John Kenneth Galbraith

[10] Galbraith argues that very few industries in the United States fit the model of perfect competition and that large corporations dominate the title entity in this 1967 follow-up to The Affluent Society.

ANSWER: The New Industrial State

